{"title":"Greek Texts in the Postclassical Tradition","teaser":"A treasure of unedited or insufficiently edited as well as untraslated or little studied Greek texts exists in the postclassical tradition (especially from the Roman period onward). The course will introduce graduate and qualified undergraduate students into this large body of later Greek literature as well as provide training in the study of manuscripts and the preparation of critical editions, translations, and commentaries. Participation in a joint publication project is possible.","info":"Efstratios Papaioannou (Primary) / GREK 1110Z S01 / CRN: 16258","_id":"05WsF3oqL9AFfFgW"}
{"title":"Political Research Methods","teaser":"Introduction to quantitative research methods in political science. Topics include research design, descriptive statistics, statistical hypothesis testing, and bivariate and multivariate regression. By the end of the course, students will have the requisite skills to intelligently consume and produce basic quantitative social science research. Enrollment limited to 24 sophomore, junior, and senior Political Science, International Relations, or Public Policy concentrators.","info":"Nicholas L. Miller (Primary) / POLS 1600 S01 / CRN: 15031","_id":"0CaF7eaLCUlJP599"}
{"title":"Intermediate Microeconomics (Mathematical)","teaser":"Microeconomic theory: Theories of the consumer and firm, competitive equilibrium, factor markets, imperfect competition, game theory, welfare economics, general equilibrium. May not be taken in addition to ECON 1110. Prerequisite: MATH 0100, 0170, 0180, 0190, 0200, or 0350; and ECON 0110; or advanced placement.","info":"ECON 1130 S01 / CRN: 15152","_id":"0FR5RNGPbCgANbgW"}
{"title":"Fiction I","teaser":"A workshop for students who have little or no previous experience in writing fiction. Enrollment limited to 17 per section. This course is limited to undergraduates. S/NC. WRIT\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"LITR 0110A S01 / CRN: 15664","_id":"0GVwNMA80r9Qh7KX"}
{"title":"Biotechnology in Medicine","teaser":"Introduces undergraduates to the main technological advances currently dominating the practice of medicine. Provides an overview of the objectives, techniques, and problems related to the application of biomedical technology to the diagnosis and treatment of disease and the contemporary health care industry. Topics include: pharmaceutical development and formulation; organ replacement by prosthesis and transplantation; medical imaging; tissue engineering, therapeutic cloning, regenerative medicine; stem cells; societal, economic, and ethical issues. This course does carry Biology concentration credit.","info":"Beth Anne Zielinski-Habershaw (Primary) / BIOL 0170 S01 / CRN: 14771","_id":"0MbP47moRZZlzsej"}
{"title":"History of the State of Israel: 1948 to the Present (JUDS 1711)","teaser":"Interested students must register for JUDS 1711 (CRN 14680).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"HIST 1930Q S01 / CRN: 16352","_id":"0OFz0bQpw7EiINo5"}
{"title":"Journalistic Writing","teaser":"This course, taught by a Pultizer Prize-winning reporter, teaches students how to report and write hard news and feature stories. Students learn to gather and organize material, develop in-depth interviewing techniques, use public records to report stories and become better observers of everyday life. The first half of the semester focuses on hard news and investigative reporting -- crime, government and court news. The second half is devoted to feature writing -- profiles and the art of narrative storytelling.  Class list will be reduced to 17 after writing samples are reviewed. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC.","info":"Tracy Breton (Primary) / ENGL 1050G S01 / CRN: 15596","_id":"0R3k57EZ6I3kpZ8A"}
{"title":"Introduction to Public Humanities","teaser":"This class, a foundational course for the MA in Public Humanities with preference given to American Studies graduate students, will address the theoretical bases of the public humanities, including topics of history and memory, museums and memorials, the roles of expertise and experience, community cultural development, and material culture. Enrollment limited to 20 graduate students.","info":"Steven D. Lubar (Primary) / AMST 2650 S01 / CRN: 15016","_id":"0Tg6N4GZRfDvP1tI"}
{"title":"Classical Theoretical Physics I","teaser":"No description available.","info":"PHYS 2030 S01 / CRN: 15252","_id":"0ajfHRLbs22ePQGV"}
{"title":"Elementary Sanskrit I","teaser":"This course introduces Sanskrit to students who have no prior knowledge of  any language other than English. Students quickly learn to read the Devanāgarī script and study the basics of the sound-system of Sanskrit. The course rapidly surveys the basics of Sanskrit grammar while using adaptations of classical Indian myths and stories as reading exercises.","info":"David Buchta (Primary) / SANS 0100 S01 / CRN: 15933","_id":"0oBTOYIzGOkAfwmP"}
{"title":"Great Jewish Books","teaser":"A survey of classic Jewish texts, from the Bible to modern literature.  Each text will be discussed from the perspective of both its own historical and social context and its engagement with earlier ones.  Attention will be paid on how these authors address perennial issues of human concern and how their answers are shaped by their experience as Jews. DPLL LILE WRIT","info":"Michael L. Satlow (Primary) / JUDS 0681 S01 / CRN: 15078","_id":"0wRK5PRRqBGkCamm"}
{"title":"Research and Transnational Communities: Qualitative Fieldwork Methods","teaser":"This course will equip students with the skills to design and implement their own transnational American Studies or Public Humanities research project. We will consider different qualitative social science research methods including, ethnographic participant observation, formal and informal interview techniques, and survey data analysis. Students will learn how different methodologies lend unique insights into specific research questions, and will be able to identify different methodological bases for empirical findings across diverse transnational social problems. Throughout the course, we will explicitly engage the personal, public, and ethical concerns involved with conducting research with transnational communities, including researcher positionality, privilege, ethics, and responsibility.","info":"Elena Shih (Primary) / AMST 1500A S01 / CRN: 16514","_id":"0xGTh2dE3to2hR6p"}
{"title":"Innovation and Technology Management I","teaser":"Examines core concepts through four modules: (1) Industry Dynamics of Technological Innovation, (2) Formulating Technological Innovation Strategy, (3) Implementing Technological Innovation Strategy, and (4) Early Commercialization and Deployment. Industry Dynamics of Innovation will explore some of the drivers of technology innovation. Implementing Technological Innovation Strategy explores execution issues concerning the flow of technology and innovation from concept to physical product or service. Early Commercialization and Deployment will focus on more salient strategic and operational issues related to commercial readiness and roll-out of a technology-based product or service. Emphasis will be on technology oriented entrepreneurial enterprises, but exploration will also include larger more established organizations.","info":"Robert A. Petteruti (Primary) / ENGN 2130 S01 / CRN: 16465","_id":"1075Mphlslg4xXst"}
{"title":"Polymer Science for Biomaterials","teaser":"Basic principles of polymer science and its application in medicine. Topics include basic polymerization chemistry, kinetics of polymerization and depolymerization with emphasis on bioerodible polymers, characterization of polymers by physical methods, bulk and surface properties, behavior of polymers in solutions, crystallization, gelation, and liquid crystals. Hands-on experience with polymer characterization. Expected: CHEM 0350. Enrollment limited to 40.","info":"Edith Mathiowitz (Primary) / BIOL 1090 L01 / CRN: 14774","_id":"11cIikyQm5Xjb6PR"}
{"title":"Advanced Modern Greek","teaser":"May be taken by students who have completed the previous sequences or by anyone who places successfully into the course. The course places emphasis on the improvement of writing and oral skills, via presentations, collaborative projects, conversations and assignments based on topics and texts, drawn from a variety of sources and cultural forms of expression.","info":"Elissavet Amanatidou (Primary) / MGRK 0500 S01 / CRN: 15950","_id":"11yEoVYuY7zqUM9a"}
{"title":"Multivariate Statistical Methods I","teaser":"Introduction to probability, descriptive statistics and statistical inference. Coverage of the linear model, its assumptions and potential biases. Emphasis on hypothesis testing, model selection and interpretation through application with real data.","info":"Margot Jackson (Primary) / SOC 2010 S01 / CRN: 15445","_id":"1QXAFTF6UhqFRnhg"}
{"title":"Basic Japanese","teaser":"Introduction to Japanese language. Emphasizes the attainment of good spoken control of Japanese and develops a foundation of literacy. No prerequisites. This is the first half of a year-long course whose first semester grade is normally a temporary one. Neither semester may be elected independently without special written permission. The final grade submitted at the end of the course work in JAPN 0200 covers the entire year and is recorded as the final grade for both semesters. The East Asian Studies department wishes to provide language instruction to all interested students. If you are unable to register for this course due to enrollment limits but are dedicated to learning Japanese, please contact the instructor via email.","info":"Yuko Imoto Jackson (Primary) / JAPN 0100 S01 / CRN: 14942","_id":"1QutI4HQFYw6y3YT"}
{"title":"Plato's Phaedrus and Symposium","teaser":"The course will be dedicated to a slow reading of these two passionate and profound works of art, which are too great to be domesticated by any one discipline.  Secondary readings may include Homer, Aeschylus, Apuleius, Augustine, Ficino, Hegel, Kierkegaard, and Nietzsche.","info":"Peter K. Saval (Primary) / COLT 1814C S01 / CRN: 15887","_id":"1Ri5RjTZNCvnptxu"}
{"title":"Experimental Design","teaser":"The course designed for students at the intermediate level or above and will cover t-tests, power analysis, correlation, simple and multiple linear regression, logistic regression, analysis or variance, non-parametric tests, randomization and bootstrapping, among others. Instructor permission required. Open to graduate students only.","info":"William C. Heindel (Primary) / CLPS 2906 S01 / CRN: 15770","_id":"1S57kZO3YdU1dI2g"}
{"title":"Macroeconomics I","teaser":"Consumption and saving, under both certainty and uncertainty; theory of economic growth; real business cycles; investment; and asset pricing.","info":"Oded Galor (Primary) / ECON 2070 S01 / CRN: 15175","_id":"1SsWbs6BJy7AhMEN"}
{"title":"The World of Byzantium (CLAS 0660)","teaser":"Interested students must register for CLAS 0660 (CRN 15929).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"RELS 0440 S01 / CRN: 16702","_id":"1UuarmgqEO4ghSHh"}
{"title":"Museum Collecting and Collections","teaser":"This course will explore and examine the methods, practices, and theory of collections management in a museum setting including collections development, museum registration methods, cataloging, collections care, and interpretation. Through readings, discussion, workshops, site visits, and exhibitions, students will explore what it means to be physically and intellectually responsible for museum objects. This course places heavy emphasis on experiential learning and will include several project-based assignments.","info":"Steven D. Lubar (Primary) / AMST 1510 S01 / CRN: 15011","_id":"1WeaYq73qIuNug6O"}
{"title":"Advanced Systems Neuroscience","teaser":"Focuses on systems approaches to study nervous system function. Lectures and discussions focus on neurophysiology, neuroimaging and lesion analysis in mammals, including humans. Computational approaches will become integrated into the material. Topics include the major sensory, regulatory, and motor systems. Enrollment limited to graduate students.","info":"Monica Linden (Primary) / NEUR 2050 S01 / CRN: 16080","_id":"1e9khbAy5IbPtBN8"}
{"title":"American Modernism and its Aftermaths","teaser":"An interdisciplinary study of the rise modernist aesthetic theory in the United States, its dissemination across various aesthetic (poetry, fiction, various plastic arts) and intellectual (economics, sociology, political theory) fields, and its persistence in United States intellectual life in the various permutations of postmodernism that have succeeded it. Authors to be considered include: poets such as Eliot, Williams, Bishop, Brooks, and Ashbery; novelists such as Faulkner, Hurston, O'Connor, and Didion; aesthetic theorists such as Greenberg, Rosenberg, Fried, Baraka and Kraus; and social theorists such as von Neuman, Rawls, Cavell, Kuhn, Samuelsohn, Drucker, and Friedman. Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Drayton Nabers (Primary) / ENGL 1760U S01 / CRN: 15499","_id":"1fohFuT9HLNpTOuM"}
{"title":"Migration and Development in Theory and Practice","teaser":"The primary theme of this course rests on a query standing at the center of a growing debate: in what ways are migrants linked to development? This course examines several theoretical debates and policies and programs focused on the migration-development nexus.  Students examine scholarly interpretations of how migration is linked to development. They also employ a transnational lens to further explore what development means and how it is carried out in an increasingly mobile and connected world. The class examines how grassroots organizations have engaged in community development, and the roles states and non-governmental agencies are playing in on-the-ground interventions. WRIT","info":"Deepak Lamba-Nieves (Primary) / DEVL 1802T S01 / CRN: 16690","_id":"1jCzm3iILtXlAd2d"}
{"title":"Innate Immunity","teaser":"Innate immunity is the initial response to microbes that prevents infection of the host. It acts within minutes to hours, allowing the development of the adaptive response in vertebrates. It is the sole mechanism of defense in invertebrates such as insects. The components and mechanisms dictating this response are explored. Prerequisite: BIOL 0530. Enrollment limited to 30. Graduate students must obtain instructor permission.","info":"Laurent Brossay (Primary) / BIOL 1520 S01 / CRN: 14691","_id":"1ksdweeSozffTMmX"}
{"title":"Introduction to Interdisciplinary Methods","teaser":"Introduction to interdisciplinary studies required of all first-year graduate students in American Studies. Graduate students from other departments may enroll with permission of the instructor.","info":"Monica M. Martinez (Primary) / AMST 2010 S01 / CRN: 15102","_id":"1yF6Za1lHsXBGHBO"}
{"title":"Evolutionary Biology","teaser":"A broad introduction to the patterns and processes of evolution at diverse levels of biological organization. Topics covered include natural selection, adaptation, speciation, systematics, macroevolution, mass extinction events, and human evolution. Weekly discussion sections involve debates on original research papers. Occasional problem sets involve computer exercises with population genetics and phylogeny reconstruction. Expected: BIOL 0200 (or equivalent placement).","info":"David M. Rand (Primary) / BIOL 0480 C01 / CRN: 14744","_id":"203wlL6YjlaIQxUD"}
{"title":"First year seminar: Statistics is everywhere","teaser":"Statistics is the universal language behind data-enabled decision making. Examples include Google's page ranking, Amazon's customer recommendations, weather prediction, medical care and political campaign strategy. This seminar will expose students to a variety of problems encountered in the media, in science and in life for which solutions require analysis of and drawing inferences from data. We will introduce basic concepts such as randomness, probability, variation, statistical significance, accuracy, bias and precision. The course will discuss statistical problems from reading assignments and material identified by the students. We will use simulation to illustrate basic concepts, though previous programing experience is not required.  FYS","info":"Zhijin J. Wu (Primary) / PHP 0100 S01 / CRN: 16794","_id":"22w15VFlwMq4WXm9"}
{"title":"Reading Jazz","teaser":"This course will explore the musical aesthetics of jazz in texts about its world.  Students will listen to music and read poetry, fiction, autobiography and criticism to investigate techniques (including improvisation, rhythm, timbre and articulation), which authors such as Langston Hughes, Ralph Ellison, Charles Mingus, Stanley Crouch and Jack Kerouac employed to describe and support a creative community. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS DPLL LILE","info":"Matthew Richards McGarrell (Primary) / MUSC 0021B S01 / CRN: 16017","_id":"240RchSEAESA5awP"}
{"title":"China Through the Lens: History, Cinema, and Critical Discourse (EAST 1270)","teaser":"Interested students must register for EAST 1270 (CRN 14992).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"MCM 1202D S01 / CRN: 16322","_id":"27Xs4ZLBdPSjA52i"}
{"title":"The Environmental Policy Process","teaser":"The diminishing quantity and quality of the resources of the Earth carries profound implications for the fulfillment of human rights and aspirations. But even as we understand better the intrinsic interdependencies between humans and the environment, policy gridlock persists. Indeed, the findings of fundamental environmental science are regularly contested on political grounds. The purpose of this course is to learn how to apply knowledge to map the relevant policy context in environmental issues, and to develop the tools and approaches to address any problem of decision in the environmental arena more creatively, effectively, and responsibly.\n WRIT","info":"Amanda Lynch (Primary) / GEOL 1615 S01 / CRN: 16752","_id":"28dby40lafMrSBDR"}
{"title":"Advanced Japanese II","teaser":"Reading of articles from Japan's press with discussion in Japanese. Focuses on explanations and drills on the fine points in grammar and vocabulary as well as on the practice of writing in various styles. Movies and video tapes are used as supplementary materials. Prerequisite: JAPN 0600 or equivalent.","info":"Hiroshi Tajima (Primary) / JAPN 0700 S01 / CRN: 14979","_id":"2GMdLjJTGXeYlkPf"}
{"title":"Rural Landscapes and Peasant Communities in the Mediterranean","teaser":"The aim of this course is to explore rural settlement and agrarian production in the Mediterranean, both in the ancient and the recent past. The archaeological starting-point is provided by the numerous scatters of surface remains that archaeological surveys across the Mediterranean have collected and that are usually interpreted as 'farmsteads' broadly datable to Classical Antiquity. We will look beyond these scatters to examine the social and economic significance of rural settlement through comparison with ethnographic and historical rural studies from across the Mediterranean and to explore household and community organisation and agrarian production in Classical Antiquity. Enrollment limited to 15.","info":"Peter van Dommelen (Primary) / ARCH 2245 S01 / CRN: 16645","_id":"2H693abwr2KumwTt"}
{"title":"History of the State of Israel: 1948 to the Present","teaser":"This course surveys the history of Israel from its Proclamation of Independence in 1948 until today.  Israel's history has unfolded under the shadow of its prolonged conflict with the Palestinians and its Arab neighbors.  At the same time, an entirely new, vibrant and dynamic society and culture has developed there.\n This course aims to familiarize the student with the major outlines of Israel's development, and with different narratives and interpretations of that history. The reading materials and class discussions will examine not only the Arab-Israeli conflict, but also its influence on Israeli politics, society and culture. WRIT","info":"Rachel Rojanski (Primary) / JUDS 1711 S01 / CRN: 14680","_id":"2IagUjgs7tnuQkEj"}
{"title":"Seven Wonders of the Ancient World","teaser":"\"Everyone has heard of the Seven Wonders of the World,\" wrote Philo of Byzantium two millennia ago, and it's still true today. But what's a \"Wonder\"? And why seven of them? Why make such a list anyway, then or now? This class will use ancient texts, explorers' accounts, and archaeological investigations to travel through several thousand years of history in the Mediterranean and Near Eastern world. We will consider how the Seven Wonders captured past imaginations; the aura of technological achievements; the intersections of history, memory, invention, and myth; and how members of one culture view another culture's monuments. LILE","info":"John F. Cherry (Primary) / CLAS 1120Q S01 / CRN: 16026","_id":"2IgthW7A1B56RVVg"}
{"title":"Realism and Modernism","teaser":"The novel as a genre has been closely identified with the act of representation. What it means to represent \"reality,\" however, has varied widely. This seminar will explore how the representation of reality changes as modern fiction questions the assumptions about knowing, language, and society that defined the great tradition of realism. English and American novels will be the primary focus of our attention, but influential French, German, and Russian works will be studied as well. Limited to 20 first-year students. Banner registration after classes begin requires instructor approval. FYS LILE","info":"Paul B. Armstrong (Primary) / ENGL 0150Q S01 / CRN: 15460","_id":"2JCkeY7pLWVxiBe3"}
{"title":"Partial Differential Equations","teaser":"The theory of the classical partial differential equations, as well as the method of characteristics and general first order theory. Basic analytic tools include the Fourier transform, the theory of distributions, Sobolev spaces, and techniques of harmonic and functional analysis. More general linear and nonlinear elliptic, hyperbolic, and parabolic equations and properties of their solutions, with examples drawn from physics, differential geometry, and the applied sciences. Generally, semester II of this course concentrates in depth on several special topics chosen by the instructor.","info":"Constantine Michael Dafermos (Primary) / APMA 2230 S01 / CRN: 15807","_id":"2OsooG1hpf8MPUJ0"}
{"title":"The Panorama and 19th-Century Visual Culture","teaser":"Throughout the 19th-century, the Panorama was a wildly popular ‘vision machine,' the model for many later attractions from theme park rides to immersive educational spectacles like IMAX movies. In this course, we will use 21st-century vision technology to study the role of these cultural artifacts, optical media and storytelling devices in the shaping of 19th-century \"virtual reality.\" We will focus on three case studies: the Garibaldi panorama at the Brown library ; the panorama of the Pilgrim's Progress at the Saco, Maine museum; and the Whaling Voyage 'round the world, at the New Bedford Whaling Museum. Taught in English.","info":"Massimo Riva (Primary) / ITAL 1340 S01 / CRN: 15261","_id":"2VieBfMF3KPKZgkT"}
{"title":"Workshop in Macroeconomics and Related Topics","teaser":"No description available.","info":"ECON 2960 S01 / CRN: 16574","_id":"2W67upcCiXSY3QD3"}
{"title":"Design of Civil Engineering Structures","teaser":"This course provides an introduction to the design of steel and reinforced concrete structures using ultimate strength methods. Lectures will cover key concepts of design theory, building codes, and standards using examples from real structures. Students will apply concepts through computer labs, homework problems, and a design project. Lectures plus lab. Prerequisite: ENGN 1300.","info":"ENGN 1380 S01 / CRN: 16442","_id":"2YFXvG1tsvaFMRkg"}
{"title":"Theory and Research in Development I","teaser":"Explores a range of substantive debates in development by drawing on empirical and theoretical work from the disciplines of economics, political science, sociology and anthropology. The course aims to provide students with a broad understanding of current debates and research on development, evaluate both the differences and complementarities in disciplinary perspectives and develop a toolkit of interdisciplinary analytic skills that can be applied to concrete research questions.","info":"Patrick G. Heller (Primary) / DEVL 2000 S01 / CRN: 16858","_id":"2ZhyM2iXaz6lNzKn"}
{"title":"Human and Machine Learning","teaser":"How is human memory like a search engine? Is human knowledge like the internet? What can artificial intelligence and machine learning tell us about the mind? How can studying the mind help machine learning? This seminar explores parallels between human cognition and contemporary research in computer science, emphasizing common problems. In addition to the above, topics include simplicity, object recognition, categorization, and causality.","info":"Joseph L. Austerweil (Primary) / CLPS 1211 S01 / CRN: 15765","_id":"2cXVgv8Nv8bGOKQO"}
{"title":"Materials Science","teaser":"Relationship between the structure of matter and its engineering properties. Topics: primary and secondary bonding; crystal structure; atomic transport in solids; defects in crystals; mechanical behavior of materials; phase diagrams and their utilization; heat treatment of metals and alloys; electrical, optical, and magnetic properties of materials; strengthening mechanisms in solids and relationships between microstructure and properties; corrosion and oxidation. Lectures, recitations, laboratory.","info":"Brian W. Sheldon (Primary) / ENGN 0410 C01 / CRN: 16430","_id":"2hm0LuX9XV1A9Zpk"}
{"title":"Disability and Performance","teaser":"Should disabled characters only be played by disabled actors? How have people with disabilities used performance as a political and cultural resource?  This course will address these questions – and many others – as it surveys the persistence of disability in performance culture and the persistence of performance in disability culture between the nineteenth century and the present. We will examine a broad range of performance forms and give special attention to understanding how attending to disability intersects with, challenges, and enriches our understanding of race, gender, and sexuality. The class presumes no previous background in performance studies or disability studies.","info":"Patrick Timothy McKelvey (Primary) / TAPS 0080 S01 / CRN: 16790","_id":"2ib2QXvTY4uJzq92"}
{"title":"Thesis Writing in Development Studies","teaser":"An integrative seminar designed for concentrators working on senior theses. Others with comparable backgrounds may enroll with written permission. Begins with a review of theoretical and methodological literature on development studies. Written and oral presentations of thesis research will be the central focus of the latter part of the course. Reserved for Development Studies seniors. WRIT","info":"DEVL 1980 S01 / CRN: 16876","_id":"2kBcDWdGfeIOLmbi"}
{"title":"Being Romantic","teaser":"\"Romantic literature\" and \"Romantic art\" are familiar concepts in the history of culture. But what does \"Romantic\" actually mean? Were Coleridge and Keats especially dedicated to writing about erotic love? Why would \"Romantic\" literature emerge during the period of the French Revolution and Industrial Revolution? What does early 19th-century \"Romanticism\" have to do with the meaning and status of the \"Romantic\" in our culture today? Readings in British and American writing from Blake and Mary Shelley to Ani DiFranco and Rage Against the Machine.","info":"William Keach (Primary) / ENGL 0100S S01 / CRN: 15464","_id":"2lhZYp4Ncsa2DSS8"}
{"title":"Anthropology and Global Social Problems: Inequality and Dev. and Health","teaser":"This course offers students an opportunity to examine and analyze a range of contemporary global social problems from an anthropological perspective.  We will explore human-environment entanglements with particular attention to intersecting issues of capitalism, international development, and state and non-state governance.  Course materials will look at various kinds of work in, on, and with the environment, asking questions about the possibilities of over-working our landscapes, while addressing the potentials for social and environment justice and sustainability.   LILE","info":"ANTH 0110 S01 / CRN: 16208","_id":"2n1ajpVWchwB961D"}
{"title":"Toward a Global Late Antiquity: 200-800 CE (HIAA 0321)","teaser":"Interested students must register for HIAA 0321 (CRN 16275).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ARCH 0563 S01 / CRN: 16739","_id":"2vEmhxTkbAtG8V8V"}
{"title":"Preliminary Exam Preparation","teaser":"For graduate students who have met the tuition requirement and are paying the registration fee to continue active enrollment while preparing for a preliminary examination.","info":"GREK 2970 S01 / CRN: 14572","_id":"30EVx3V42YRhkiZb"}
{"title":"History of Ethnological Theory","teaser":"A seminar investigating some themes in the history of anthropological theory. Starting with the delineations of the scope and nature of social science by Marx, Durkheim, and Weber, the seminar then considers various explorations of the concepts of structure, function, and agency, concluding with Bourdieu's reformulation of social anthropology for a new generation in the form of practice theory.","info":"William S. Simmons (Primary) / ANTH 2000 S01 / CRN: 16205","_id":"32wVctpXorJJ9UD4"}
{"title":"Wind Symphony","teaser":"Half credit each semester. A practical study of the wind band repertory from Mozart to the present, offered through coaching, rehearsals, and performances. Enrollment is by audition. Restricted to skilled instrumentalists. Instructor permission required.","info":"Matthew Richards McGarrell (Primary) / MUSC 0620 S01 / CRN: 16029","_id":"33bzcmhCW64cXZ6Y"}
{"title":"Philosophy of Science","teaser":"Some very general, basic questions concerning science.  Can evidence justify belief in theories which go beyond the evidence?  What is the nature of good scientific reasoning?  Is there a single scientific method? What is a scientific explanation?  Does science reveal truths about unobservable reality, or merely tell us about parts of the world we can measure directly?\n WRIT","info":"David P. Christensen (Primary) / PHIL 1590 S01 / CRN: 15091","_id":"36dfwhHemcrJPCSm"}
{"title":"Reframing Documentary Production: Concepts and Questions","teaser":"An advanced seminar for students of video and/or film production. Focuses on the critical discussion and production of documentary media. A major project (10-20 minutes), three shorter works, and in-class presentations of work-in-progress required. Readings on the theory and practice of the form and weekly screenings augment the presentation of student work. Class members should have completed at least one time-based media class. Students are expected to be competent technically.  Application required. Application is available in the MCM office. Students must bring a completed application to the first class to be considered for admission.","info":"MCM 1700D F01 / CRN: 14903","_id":"3BTnvweUlcHvYAY2"}
{"title":"Research Grant Writing for Public Health","teaser":"This course focuses on providing knowledge and experience in creating high quality public health research grant applications. Course objectives include developing significant and innovative scientific hypotheses, learning principles of effective written communication, and developing a research grant application suitable to submit for funding. Designed for Public Health School PhD students, post-doctoral fellows, and Masters students with advanced degrees (e.g. MD, PhD). Prerequisite: PHP 2120 or PHP 2150 or instructor permission.","info":"Mark Lurie (Primary) / PHP 2090 S01 / CRN: 16686","_id":"3CSVR7uqNFKC45IB"}
{"title":"Archaeologies of Text (ASYR 2800)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ASYR 2800 (CRN 14847).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ARCH 2114 S01 / CRN: 16365","_id":"3FJLuAQ6Mlk3tFrl"}
{"title":"History Honors Workshop for Prospective Thesis Writers","teaser":"HIST 1992 and HIST 1993 students meet together as the History Honors Workshop, offered in two separate sections per week. Prospective honors students are encouraged to enroll in HIST 1992 during semesters 5 or 6. HIST 1992 offers a consideration of historical methodology and  techniques of writing and research with the goal of preparing to write a senior thesis in history, allowing students to refine research skills, define a project,  prepare a thesis prospectus, required for admission to honors. Students who complete honors may count HIST 1992 as a concentration requirement. Limited to juniors who qualify for the honors program. WRIT","info":"Ethan Pollock (Primary) / HIST 1992 S01 / CRN: 15056","_id":"3FRUKWFMsxkil5q2"}
{"title":"Poetry I","teaser":"A workshop for students who have little or no previous experience in writing poetry. Enrollment limited to 17 per section. This course is limited to undergraduates. S/NC. WRIT\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"LITR 0110B S01 / CRN: 15667","_id":"3I5T27t7BP1WLSBo"}
{"title":"Darwinian Medicine","teaser":"Explores evolutionary explanations of why we get sick, and how this can shape, or misshape, our interpretations of medicine. Draws on evolutionary genetics, population biology, molecular biology and physiology. This course will build on evolutionary biology and then focus on disease processes such as infection, aging, cancer, allergy, diabetes, and obesity. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students.  FYS","info":"Marc Tatar (Primary) / BIOL 0190F S01 / CRN: 14840","_id":"3JFMnZG6yMn8x9bW"}
{"title":"Introductory Calculus, Part I","teaser":"An intensive course in calculus of one variable including limits, differentiation, maxima and minima, the chain rule, rational functions, trigonometric functions, and exponential functions. Introduction to integration with applications to area and volumes of revolution. MATH 0090 and 0100 or the equivalent are recommended for all students intending to concentrate in the sciences or mathematics. Lectures plus one 80-minute section arranged. S/NC only.","info":"MATH 0090 C01 / CRN: 15323","_id":"3LTNk4TovYIbBNSv"}
{"title":"Libretto Workshop for Musical Theatre","teaser":"This class is not only for the aspiring librettist but for any student desiring insight into the craft of book writing for musical theater. The course will cover the basics of storytelling (plot, character development conflict, etc.) but specifically in terms of the musical. It will also detail the fundamentals of lyric writing, musical narrative and basic composition. We will examine three libretti (SWEENEY TODD: the classic horror, LITTLE SHOP of HORRORS, the modern sci-fi and RENT, the contemporary adaptation). There will be lectures, group discussions, talks with guest professionals, and analysis of student assignments. Enrollment limited to 15 sophomores, juniors, and seniors.","info":"Marcus Gardley (Primary) / TAPS 1280S S01 / CRN: 16155","_id":"3LZbHaTxQQIH1Bvr"}
{"title":"Humans, Nature, and the Environment: Addressing Environmental Change in the 21st Century","teaser":"Offers a survey introduction to contemporary environmental issues and is a \"gateway\" class for those interested in concentrations in environmental studies/sciences. It is a required course for concentrators. We explore the relationships between human societies and the non-human environment through a survey of topical cases, including: human population growth and consumption, global climate change, toxins, waste streams, water resources, environmental justice and ethics, and agro-food systems. This course also analyzes various solutions—social, political, technical, and economic—put forth by institutions and individuals to address questions of environmental sustainability. One 90-minute weekly discussion group required. WRIT","info":"Mariah D. King (Primary) / ENVS 0110 S01 / CRN: 15672","_id":"3QFRNj2MMjk7nE47"}
{"title":"Fluid Dynamics I","teaser":"Formulation of the basic conservation laws for a viscous, heat conducting, compressible fluid.  Molecular basis for thermodynamic and transport properties.  Kinematics of vorticity and its transport and diffusion.  Introduction to potential flow theory.  Viscous flow theory; the application of dimensional analysis and scaling to obtain low and high Reynolds number limits.","info":"Martin R. Maxey (Primary) / APMA 2410 S01 / CRN: 15808","_id":"3TpQOTLw54X1eV5F"}
{"title":"Continuum Mechanics","teaser":"An introduction to the mathematical foundations of continuum mechanics. Vectors and tensors, properties and basic operations. Kinematics of deformation. Conservation laws, thermodynamics. Stress. Constitutive equations. Elastic, viscous, and viscoelastic response. Linearization. Simple problems in finite and linear elasticity, and in Navier-Stokes flows. Creep and relaxation in linear viscoelasticity.","info":"Haneesh Kesari (Primary) / ENGN 2210 S01 / CRN: 16468","_id":"3UUyJwplC29W8vlB"}
{"title":"Information Theory","teaser":"Information theory is the study of the fundamental limits of information transmission and storage.  This course, intended primarily for advanced undergraduates and beginning graduate students, offers a broad introduction to information theory and its applications: Entropy and information,  lossless data compression, communication in the presence of noise, channel capacity, channel coding, source-channel separation, lossy data compression. Prerequisite: one course in probability.","info":"APMA 1710 S01 / CRN: 15805","_id":"3X4yebqerEZvfZ32"}
{"title":"Race and Ethnic Relations, Identity, and Inequality","teaser":"This course provides an overview of perspectives used in sociological studies of race and ethnicity.  It focuses on race and ethnic relation, boundaries, and inequalities through empirical research on interracial or interethnic contact opportunities and racial, ethnic change and variation in interracial or interethnic  relationship, romance, and marriage.  The goal of the course is to deepen the understanding that racial/ethnic boundaries are rigid, yet may be crossed, blurred, or shifted over time and across generations.","info":"SOC 1872C S01 / CRN: 16755","_id":"3cZmvDsfBUHnUVQJ"}
{"title":"Global Governance","teaser":"This seminar explores the changing nature of global governance. Governance refers to the systems of authoritative rules, norms, institutions, and practices by means of which the international community manages its common affairs.  Emphasizing in-depth readings of sustained arguments, this seminar examines key global governance processes and how they differ across different issue areas.  It explores the variety of actors involved in managing global issues, surveys emerging trends, and explores possible ways of improving the capacity of the international community to deal with global challenges.  Key issues examined include the global economy, nuclear weapons, the global environment, and human rights and justice. WRIT","info":"Nina Tannenwald (Primary) / POLS 1823Y S02 / CRN: 16629","_id":"3eAUnFxTAnR5PTqf"}
{"title":"Urban Politics and Urban Public Policy","teaser":"A central theme of the course is that urban politics in the United arises from the interplay of governmental power and private resources. The course describes the emergence of urban America; the modern city and the theories that have evolved to explain urban politics; and the nature of the urban condition with particular emphasis on the challenges faced by residents and government in the post-industrial city.","info":"Marion E. Orr (Primary) / POLS 1320 S01 / CRN: 15028","_id":"3eDD7S7OV3YLHSPV"}
{"title":"Sophomore Seminars in Biology: Life in a Shell","teaser":"This Sophomore seminar is an examination of broad themes in whole animal physiology with an emphasis on environmental adaptations. The foundation of the course will be the instructor’s recent book “Life in a Shell: A Physiologist’s View of Turtle.” A consideration of this iconic animal’s novel biological traits will lead into comparisons with our own biology and that of other animals. Topics: respiration, circulation, metabolic rate, buoyancy control, overwintering, migration, reproduction, and bone structure and function. Relevant original research papers will be used. Mandatory S/NC; enrollment of 20 students; override required. Expected: BIOL 0200 or equivalent placement credit. SOPH","info":"Donald C. Jackson (Primary) / BIOL 0940B S01 / CRN: 14776","_id":"3eba3WtZnXIUYEsp"}
{"title":"Introduction to Set Design","teaser":"A survey of the history and concepts of scenic design with emphasis on the art, artists and the social/political movements influencing the major period. Aims to give the designer a foundation in research approaches. Also to provide an examination of stylistic approaches and innovations in the context of the historical period. Enrollment limited to 10.","info":"TAPS 1280F S01 / CRN: 16153","_id":"3n5UB1WlqTcrvhbI"}
{"title":"Russia in the Era of Reforms, Revolutions, and World Wars","teaser":"This course examines the rapid industrialization, modernization, and urbanization of Russia from the era of the \"Great Reforms\" (1860s) through the Second World War.  We will examine both the growing discontentment among the population with autocracy's efforts to maintain power and the Bolshevik effort to recreate the economy, society, and everyday life.  Topics will include Russian Marxism and socialism, terrorism, the Russian revolutions of 1917, the rise and consolidation of Soviet socialism, famine, the red terror, and World War II. WRIT","info":"Ethan Pollock (Primary) / HIST 1268B S01 / CRN: 14929","_id":"3oJrDTWV5u58kiuB"}
{"title":"Quantum Many Body Theory","teaser":"No description available.","info":"John Bradley Marston (Primary) / PHYS 2430 S01 / CRN: 16914","_id":"3ooBqbwmpJ5At5nP"}
{"title":"Animal Behavior Laboratory","teaser":"This course is designed for students with a serious interest in animal behavior research. Topics include methods in lab and field research, enrichment programs for captive species and conditioning procedures for managing zoo and shelter animals. Prerequisites: CLPS 0900 (COGS/PSYC 0090). Enrollment limited to 12; not open to first year students.","info":"Ruth Melanie Colwill (Primary) / CLPS 1191 L01 / CRN: 15755","_id":"3uIwCxccJElnv0cs"}
{"title":"Directing: Design in the Collaborative Process","teaser":"This is a two-credit course and is open only to students of the Brown/ Trinity Rep MFA Consortium program. Directing students will study theatrical design including stage settings, costumes, lights and sound. Particular focus will be given to ways in which a director works with a designer to establish his or her vision of the play. Areas of study will include blueprints, floor plans, renderings and focus.","info":"Stephen Berenson (Primary) / TAPS 2730 S01 / CRN: 11019","_id":"3vN8cI447vErMTha"}
{"title":"Virtual Reality Design for Science","teaser":"Explores the visual and human-computer interaction design process for scientific applications in Brown's immersive virtual reality Cave. Joint with RISD. Computer Science and design students learn how to work together effectively; study the process of design; learn about scientific problems; create designs applications; critique, evaluate, realize and iterate designs; and demonstrate final projects. Instructor permission required.","info":"David H. Laidlaw (Primary) / CSCI 1370 S01 / CRN: 16292","_id":"3zOjetiVyX0mUtbc"}
{"title":"Speech and Silence, Trust and Fear: A Feminist Philosophical Inquiry into Sex Equality","teaser":"This seminar examines problems that arise in marriage from the failures of couples to speak to each other, and when they do, from their failures to speak openly, honestly, and from a position of social equality.  We examine from a metaphysical and moral perspective the agency in men and women as it is reflected in what couples say and think.  We look at whether marriages fail when women consciously choose or unconsciously fall into oppressive, subordinate postures and examine whether men take advantage of these postures.  Class materials will be primarily novels and films, supplemented with philosophical, sociological, and legal essays.","info":"Pamela S. P. Foa (Primary) / GNSS 1711 S01 / CRN: 16896","_id":"43blInfoLgHOWqqR"}
{"title":"Javanese Gamelan","teaser":"Half credit each semester. Instruction, rehearsals, and performances in the gamelan music of Java, on instruments owned by the department. No prerequisites.  Enrollment limited to 18 students.","info":"Marc A. Perlman (Primary) / MUSC 0650 S01 / CRN: 16049","_id":"46mSPxKWqZ3ZxYCv"}
{"title":"Pain and the Human Condition: Exploring the Science, Medicine, and Culture of Pain","teaser":"Pain is a universal human experience, yet it is highly subjective.  For most, pain represents an occasionally unpleasant, self-limited experience.  However, for others, chronic pain persists beyond the recovery from an injury or as a result of a chronic health condition.  Persons with chronic pain often describe their pain as permeating every aspect of their lives.  While an active area of research, pain remains a significant challenge to the individual seeking treatment, the health care provider and society.  This multidisciplinary course introduces students to scientific, medical, and public health aspects of pain and explores personal narratives and cultural meanings of pain. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS WRIT","info":"Nisha Gupta Trivedi (Primary) / PHP 0050 S01 / CRN: 16675","_id":"472KeVvelhHjz2yh"}
{"title":"Moral Philosophy","teaser":"An introduction to ethics, the part of philosophy that is concerned with right and wrong, good and bad, virtue and vice. We will look at some central issues in the field as well as some of the main theories in it. Is an action good or bad because of its anticipated results or regardless of these results? Is it ever right to kill one person to save five? Is relativism true? Is abortion wrong? These would be some of the topics discussed. WRIT","info":"Nomy Arpaly (Primary) / PHIL 0500 S01 / CRN: 15089","_id":"4B3c7AGJ32jawhmL"}
{"title":"Pride and Prejudice in the Development of Scientific Theories","teaser":"We will examine how the pace and shape of scientific progress is affected by the social/cultural context and the \"personality\" of the individual. We will look into how the interplay between society and the individual affects how scientific theories arise, are presented, are debated and are accepted. The course will initially focus on Charles Darwin and his theory of Natural Selection using the biography of Adrian Desmond and James Moore, \"Darwin: The Life of a Tormented Evolutionist.\"  Enrollment limited to 20 first year students.  FYS DPLL","info":"Stephen L. Helfand (Primary) / BIOL 0190P S01 / CRN: 14701","_id":"4BDITLrdcDlDmn2X"}
{"title":"Making it in the Music Business: The New Artist Model","teaser":"This course details the current music industry and provides a new business model for independent artists and songwriters. The course explores three personas including the performing artist/DJ, the songwriter/producer and the recording artist and what options exist to drive career success in the digital age. We identify the building blocks of a successful musical career including copyrights, fan engagement, social marketing and the artist’s team. We examine the publishing industry, the touring industry, and the recording industry and how they have changed over time, and explore various methods and tools for developing a sustainable business strategy.","info":"MUSC 1270 S01 / CRN: 16082","_id":"4Cvcu4IA9JHjQnij"}
{"title":"Neural Dynamics: Theory and Modeling","teaser":"Our thoughts and actions are mediated by the dynamic activity of the brain’s neurons. This course will use mathematics and computational modeling as a tool to study neural dynamics at the level of signal neurons and in more complicated networks. We will focus on relevance to modern day neuroscience problems with a goal of linking dynamics to function. Topics will include biophysically detailed and reduced representations of neurons, bifurcation and phase plane analysis of neural activity, neural rhythms and coupled oscillator theory. Audience: advanced undergraduate or graduate students. Prerequisite: APMA 0350-0360 and Matlab programming course. Instructor permission required.","info":"Stephanie R. Jones (Primary) / APMA 2821V S01 / CRN: 16649","_id":"4KasWaGbZrCTMZKw"}
{"title":"Linear Algebra","teaser":"Vector spaces, linear transformations, matrices, systems of linear equations, bases, projections, rotations, determinants, and inner products. Applications may include differential equations, difference equations, least squares approximations, and models in economics and in biological and physical sciences. MATH 0520 or 0540 is a prerequisite for all 1000-level courses in Mathematics except MATH 1260 or 1610. Recommended prerequisite: MATH 0180, 0200, or 0350. May not be taken in addition to MATH 0540.","info":"Serguei R. Treil (Primary) / MATH 0520 S01 / CRN: 15372","_id":"4Kkkf7MzLMrWXrG6"}
{"title":"The Body and the Desire to Sleep","teaser":"Almost automatically, we tend to think corporeality as bound up with caducity; the body is the lodestone of all that is finite, frail, susceptible to hurt, to wearing out, to exhaustion. Taking our initial cues from Freud's propensity to speak of the body's desire to sleep (rather than its need for it) we will reexamine the premises of our automatic assumptions. How does psychoanalysis think the body and what does that discourse owe or add to philosophical theories of corporeality? What makes the body move? What does it contribute to our sense of self?","info":"MCM 2100N F01 / CRN: 14926","_id":"4NQBhQYrFnJ3Tbap"}
{"title":"Treaty Rights and Food Fights: Eating Local in Indian Country","teaser":"In many Native American communities the push to \"eat local\" is often based on reviving a traditional food culture as well as a way of promoting better health.  This class explores the disparate health conditions faced by Native communities, and the efforts by many groups to address these health problems through increasing community access to traditional foods, whether by gardening projects or a revival of hunting and fishing traditions.  We will examine the ways in which Native food movements have converged and diverged from general American local food movements, and the struggles they often face in reviving treaty-guaranteed food ways.","info":"Elizabeth M. Hoover (Primary) / ETHN 1890M S01 / CRN: 15918","_id":"4UnWODqBCvndRJJj"}
{"title":"Christianity in Conflict in the Medieval Mediterranean","teaser":"Students in this class will learn about medieval history by taking on roles, informed by classic texts, in elaborate games set in the past. Drawing on the innovative “Reacting to the Past” curriculum, this class explores two dramatic moments in medieval history: the debate about Christian belief held at Nicaea in 325 and the deliberations about crusading held at Acre in 1148. Students will adhere to the intellectual beliefs of the medieval figures they have been assigned to play, and will learn skills—speaking, writing, critical thinking, leadership, and teamwork—in order to prevail in difficult and complicated situations. FYS  P","info":"Jonathan P. Conant (Primary) / HIST 0521A S01 / CRN: 14917","_id":"4bRZQ7TgiW342Izj"}
{"title":"Age of Augustus: Topography, Architecture, and Politics (CLAS 1120T)","teaser":"Interested students must register for CLAS 1120T (CRN 15941).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ARCH 1101 S01 / CRN: 16367","_id":"4jKDhINIUSl6dUjQ"}
{"title":"PLME Senior Seminar in Scientific Medicine","teaser":"This course is an interdisciplinary and integrative science course that will supplement the preparation of both PLME and pre-medical students for the study of medicine in the 21st century. The course will use a case-based approach to relevant and contemporary subjects in medicine and health care, such as: biological systems and their interactions;  diagnosis and therapy optimization; and the humanistic aspects of patient care. The course is intended for seniors interested in attending medical school but will preferentially enroll PLME students. Prerequisite: PLME competency in Biology, Chemistry (inorganic and organic), Physics, and introductory calculus. Enrollment limited to 40. S/NC","info":"Julianne Ip (Primary) / PLME 1000 S01 / CRN: 16305","_id":"4kIhkBT3boOC7thy"}
{"title":"Against Invisibility: Asian America/s, Collective Memory and the Public Humanities","teaser":"This seminar confronts the problem of Asian American invisibility in U.S. public culture. The popular “model minority” narrative about (primarily East) Asian Americans has effaced radically different trajectories of migration, community formation and racializations as well as sharp contradictions of class, gender, and sexuality. We will study different strategies and projects deployed by Asian American communities to confront, remember and memorialize collective memories of these struggles.  Students will draw on their research and work with community groups to design exhibits, memorials, and arts projects that will help change this dynamic.","info":"Robert George Lee (Primary) / AMST 2655 S01 / CRN: 16884","_id":"4lLUXaM4OhbvtuD4"}
{"title":"Essentials of the Greek Language","teaser":"A two-semester approach to ancient Greek with special emphasis on developing facility in rapid reading of Greek literature. Selections from Attic Greek authors. No previous knowledge of Greek is required.","info":"GREK 0100 S01 / CRN: 15935","_id":"4rCWHS02OjqWM3Kd"}
{"title":"Playwriting I","teaser":"A workshop for students who have little or no previous experience in writing plays. Students will be introduced to a variety of technical and imaginative considerations through exercises, readings and discussions. Course is not open to those who have taken Advanced Playwriting (TAPS 1500, formerly LITR 1010C and TSDA 1500). Enrollment is limited to 14 undergraduates per section. A limited number of spaces are reserved for incoming and transfer students. Instructor permission required. S/NC. WRIT","info":"Carlos M Harris (Primary) / TAPS 0100 S01 / CRN: 16138","_id":"4yCmWRZtiG10m7O9"}
{"title":"Public Budgeting and Management","teaser":"Explores how organizations use budgets and management tools to achieve broader social, economic, and political objectives. It is designed to show how these techniques can be used to improve organizational performance.","info":"PLCY 2020 S01 / CRN: 15114","_id":"51vswHLVXgRf3cKt"}
{"title":"Honors Calculus","teaser":"A third-semester calculus course for students of greater aptitude and motivation. Topics include vector analysis, multiple integration, partial differentiation, line integrals, Green's theorem, Stokes' theorem, the divergence theorem, and additional material selected by the instructor. Prerequisite: Advanced placement or written permission.","info":"MATH 0350 S01 / CRN: 15370","_id":"53rkwNmLa31jLuE0"}
{"title":"Fiction Writing II","teaser":"Topics often include stylistic matters related to tone and point of view, and structural matters like controlling switches in time. See general course description above for course entry procedures for all intermediate workshops. Enrollment limited to 17. Instructor permission required. S/NC. WRIT\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Joanna E. Howard (Primary) / LITR 0210A S01 / CRN: 15549","_id":"54JhbcJYmfE24VOP"}
{"title":"Digital Signal Processing","teaser":"An introduction to the basics of linear, shift invariant systems and signals. Quantization and sampling issues are introduced. Discrete time and DFT properties, fast DFT algorithms, and spectral analysis are discussed. IIR and FIR digital filter design is a focus; stochastic and deterministic signals are introduced. MATLAB exercises are a significant part of the course.","info":"Harvey Fox Silverman (Primary) / ENGN 2530 S01 / CRN: 16472","_id":"54QYeQ1YbdGMNw1Y"}
{"title":"Indians, Colonists, and Africans in New England","teaser":"The course explores the colonial and capitalist transformation of New England's social and cultural landscapes following European contact.   Using archaeology as critical evidence, we will examine claims about conquest, Indian Extinction, and class, gender and race relations by studying the daily lives and interactions of the area's diverse Native American, African American, and European peoples. DPLL LILE","info":"Patricia E. Rubertone (Primary) / ANTH 1624 S01 / CRN: 16200","_id":"5Rt2EGuWdGgkBT1P"}
{"title":"Bench to Bedside: Unraveling Diseases of the Nervous System","teaser":"Enrollment restricted to graduate students.","info":"Barry William Connors (Primary) / NEUR 2930E S01 / CRN: 16591","_id":"5UMfsIFs1W7gRq00"}
{"title":"Foundation Media: Sound and Image","teaser":"This foundation studio course focuses on the production and theory of screen-based digital media artwork and introduces the computer as a medium and a tool for art.  The principles and techniques web design, and sound and image production are addressed in readings, screenings, and a number of specific projects. During pre-registration, the course is open to Visual Arts concentrators; all others may enroll with instructor permission. After pre-registration ends, registration for all students is by instructor permission only. Enrollment limited to 12.","info":"Edward P. Osborn (Primary) / VISA 0120 S01 / CRN: 16089","_id":"5UOmAhpJ1yydIlno"}
{"title":"Quality of Democracy in Latin America ","teaser":"Focus on democratic quality in modern Latin America, its failures as well as its successes. Topics include police violence, the rule of law, indigenous movements, gender and gay rights, anti-poverty policy, and direct democracy. Will draw on material from across the Spanish and Portuguese speaking democracies in the region. We will engage with different theories of what makes democracies representative and accountable to their citizens.  Not open to first years.","info":"Rebecca B. Weitz-Shapiro (Primary) / POLS 1285 S01 / CRN: 15026","_id":"5XFGSeDFeKVhllDw"}
{"title":"Governing Sex: Citizenship, Violence, Media (MCM 0901Q)","teaser":"Interested students must register for MCM 0901Q (CRN 15479).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"TAPS 0901Q S01 / CRN: 16484","_id":"5YlhxYV7i8LdECLG"}
{"title":"Akkadian Texts of the Late Bronze Age","teaser":"Readings in late-second millennium cuneiform sources found at sites such as Nuzi, Alalakh, Amarna, Hattusha, Emar, Ugarit, and elsewhere. Particular emphasis will be placed on understanding the representative genres of this period (administrative, epistolary, legal, literary, ritual, and scholastic texts) as well as grappling with the historical and interpretive problems associated with a particular archive or group of archives. Additional topics include: Akkadian as a lingua franca; linguistic interference; corpus-specific problems in lexicography, paleography, orthography, grammar, prosopography, and the material aspects of textual production. A reading knowledge of Akkadian cuneiform is required.","info":"Matthew T. Rutz (Primary) / ASYR 2450 S02 / CRN: 15197","_id":"5YtDvorwcAl2dfOZ"}
{"title":"Computer Graphics Lab","teaser":"CSCI 1234 is a half-credit course intended to be taken concurrently with CSCI 1230 and provides students with a greater understanding of the material by having them extend each of 1230's assignments to greater depth.","info":"Andries van Dam (Primary) / CSCI 1234 S01 / CRN: 15983","_id":"5cfWrn2u6sICcHQJ"}
{"title":"Pathology to Power:  Disability, Health and Community","teaser":"This course offers a comprehensive view of health and community concerns experienced by people with disabilities. Guest speakers, and hands on field research involving interactions with people with disabilities will facilitate the students gaining a multi-layered understanding of the issues faced by people with disabilities and their families. DPLL LILE","info":"Sarah E. Skeels (Primary) / PHP 1680I S01 / CRN: 16220","_id":"5iogbWfe9SK1P2jM"}
{"title":"Embedded Microprocessor Design","teaser":"This is a combined lecture and design project course offering experience in the open-ended design of an electronic product or system employing an embedded microprocessor by small-group design teams. Activity includes product specification, circuit design, programming, printed circuit layout, construction, packaging, and economic assessment. Teams are expected to produce functional products. Lecture topics will be adjusted to reflect the chosen design problems. Emphasis is placed on the criteria for choosing processors and on the interfaces and programming requirements of the system. Primarily for senior concentrators. Experience with C programming is helpful but not required. Prerequisite ENGN 1630 or permission of the instructor.","info":"William R. Patterson III (Primary) / ENGN 1650 S01 / CRN: 16487","_id":"5jZpNPFvgrnbi1Py"}
{"title":"Accelerated Introduction to Computer Science","teaser":"his course is a one-semester introduction to computer science for students with strong prior computer science background. It covers core data structures, algorithms, and analysis techniques similar to those of the two-course introductory sequences (CSCI 0150-0160 and CSCI 0170-0180), integrated with programming. Students who wish to take CSCI 0190 must begin in CSCI 0170 and complete additional work in that course. CSCI 0190 will branch off from CSCI 0170 after approximately one month. Students will be permitted to enroll by permission of the instructor.\n  Please see http://cs.brown.edu/courses/csci0190/2012/ for information on registering for this class.","info":"Shriram Krishnamurthi (Primary) / CSCI 0190 S01 / CRN: 15979","_id":"5neInRgaMW344iRu"}
{"title":"Philosophy of Language","teaser":"Focus will be on Gareth Evans's book Varieties of Reference and related material. Enrollment limited to 20 graduate students. S/NC","info":"Richard Heck (Primary) / PHIL 2120J S01 / CRN: 15093","_id":"5qUToz3UyOdOCqXd"}
{"title":"Practicum","teaser":"Goya and the Interpretation of War. Working with materials from the Brown collection and RISD Museum. Reading knowledge of Spanish and French strongly advised. Pre-approval required, please contact instructor by email. Open to graduate students only.","info":"Sheila Bonde (Primary) / HIAA 2930 S01 / CRN: 14920","_id":"5qf8d8MfKllOaYRm"}
{"title":"Revolution as Work of Art","teaser":"A study of Russian revolutionary culture and new personhood, ca. 1905-1930, with readings from Russian fiction, philosophy, art criticism, dramatic and political theory, and cultural and theatre history. Topics include the revolution of the spirit, the culture of the future, iconography and spectacle, charismatic authority, and revolutionary terror. Open to juniors, seniors and graduate students. All readings are in English. In order to maintain the seminar structure and methodology of the course, enrollment is limited to 20 students.","info":"Spencer Golub (Primary) / TAPS 1710 S01 / CRN: 16128","_id":"5rtFQC3CJhaCd9wR"}
{"title":"Advanced Modern Chinese II","teaser":"This course is designed to enhance the Chinese proficiency of those who have taken Advanced Modern Chinese I (CHIN 0600) or the equivalent. All four language skills are emphasized through selected authentic materials. At the end of the year, students should be able to express their ideas with sophistication and nuance. Drills on complex sentence patterns will be conducted when necessary. Prerequisite: CHIN 0600 or permission of instructor.","info":"Lung-Hua Hu (Primary) / CHIN 0700 S01 / CRN: 14954","_id":"5vntghDAQUNWxFXV"}
{"title":"The U.S. Health Care System: Case Studies in Financing, Delivery, Regulation and Public Health","teaser":"Reviews the development of the health care delivery, financing and regulatory control systems in the U.S. and reviews the literature on the relationship between health system structure and the services used and health outcomes that populations experience. A case-study approach is used to understand the inter-relationship between financing, delivery and regulatory components of the health system and their implication for public health by drawing on epidemiological, economic, political and sociological principals. Prerequisites: Graduate standing or PHP 0310 or PHP 0070 (not available to first year students or sophomores). Instructor permission required.","info":"Christopher F. Koller (Primary) / PHP 2400 S01 / CRN: 16676","_id":"5w0qyWlRHnmZajvr"}
{"title":"Revolution in Russian Women's Writing","teaser":"This course will use Russian women’s writing, primarily fiction, to develop a new understanding\n of Russian literary and cultural history. By weaving together literature, historical texts, and\n feminist theory from Russia and beyond, we will reveal a narrative of Russian literary and cultural history that is generally relegated to footnotes, a narrative that contains different cataclysmic shifts and revolutions than those that occurred at the state level, and we will examine the inception and development of the tradition of Russian women's writing. No\n knowledge of Russian required. LILE WRIT","info":"Erin K Krafft (Primary) / RUSS 1019 S01 / CRN: 16808","_id":"6397OVsKMy3PEFMN"}
{"title":"Africa and the Transatlantic Slave Trade","teaser":"This class deals with the History of transatlantic slave trade by emphasizing how Africa affected and was affected by the largest forced migration in the History of humankind. The class will engage key debates in the historiography of the slave trade, such as whether the trade underdeveloped Africa, the connection between the trade and the rise of coastal kingdoms in West Africa, and African resistance/cooperation with the slave trade.\n FYS","info":"Roquinaldo Ferreira (Primary) / HIST 0505 S01 / CRN: 16673","_id":"64B98xFdCaW1GBAV"}
{"title":"Bargaining Theory and Applications","teaser":"Bargaining theory is emerging as an important area within the general rubric of game theory. Emphasis is on providing a relatively elementary version of the theory in order to make it accessible to a large number of students. Covers introductory concepts in game theory, strategic and axiomatic theories of bargaining and their connections, applications to competitive markets, strikes, etc. Prerequisite: ECON 1110 or 1130. Enrollment limited to 100.","info":"Jack A. Fanning (Primary) / ECON 1470 S01 / CRN: 16585","_id":"677YIsAooaMC9zvt"}
{"title":"Learning and Sequential Decision Making","teaser":"The course explores automated decision making from a computer-science perspective. It examines efficient algorithms, where they exist, for single agent and multiagent planning as well as approaches to learning near-optimal decisions from experience. Topics will include Markov decision processes, stochastic and repeated games, partially observable Markov decision processes, and reinforcement learning.  Of particular interest will be issues of generalization, exploration, and representation. Each student will be expected to present a published research paper and will participate in a group programming project.  Prerequisite: a graduate-level computer science course and some exposure to reinforcement learning from a previous computer-science class or seminar.","info":"Michael L. Littman (Primary) / CSCI 2951F S01 / CRN: 16302","_id":"67R5sewJBo5GlZdy"}
{"title":"Analytical Mechanics","teaser":"A mathematically more rigorous introduction to Newtonian mechanics than PHYS 0050. For first-year students and sophomores who have studied physics previously and have completed a year of calculus. Lectures, conferences, and laboratory. Six hours of attendance. Prerequisites: high school physics and calculus or written permission.","info":"PHYS 0070 L01 / CRN: 15228","_id":"69vTHLAfDu3Dj7vl"}
{"title":"Solid State Physics I","teaser":"No description available.","info":"PHYS 2410 S01 / CRN: 15256","_id":"6CRc7IhoTsEgZp6E"}
{"title":"Introduction to Astronomy","teaser":"A complete survey of basic astronomy, more rigorous than is offered in PHYS 0220. Requires competence in algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and vectors and also some understanding of calculus and classical mechanics. Laboratory work required. This course or an equivalent required for students concentrating in astronomy. The course includes conferences and evening laboratory sessions.","info":"PHYS 0270 S01 / CRN: 15235","_id":"6FLryUpusx265r1z"}
{"title":"Out of Portuguese Africa: Deconstructing Portuguese Colonialism in Literature","teaser":"Examines both fictional narratives written in Portuguese by African authors and fictional works by Portuguese authors that focus on the colonial experience of Angola, Mozambique, and Cape Verde. Aims in particular at the critical analysis of Portuguese colonialism as a means to verify its specificity or lack thereof within the larger context of overarching European colonialisms. Conducted in Portuguese.","info":"Leonor Simas-Almeida (Primary) / POBS 1501A S01 / CRN: 16775","_id":"6HsuSSQ0ujoKjm4u"}
{"title":"The Human Skeleton","teaser":"More than simply a tissue within our bodies, the human skeleton is a gateway into narratives of the past--from the evolution of our species to the biography of individual past lives. Through lecture and hands-on laboratory, students will learn the complete anatomy of the human skeleton, with an emphasis on the human skeleton in functional and evolutionary perspective. We'll also explore forensic and bioarchaeological approaches to the skeleton. By the course conclusion, students will be able to conduct basic skeletal analysis and will be prepared for more advanced studies of the skeleton from medical, forensic, archaeological, and evolutionary perspectives. LILE","info":"Andrew K. Scherer (Primary) / ANTH 1720 S01 / CRN: 16202","_id":"6JuY99KmNn3rDwue"}
{"title":"The World in Revolution: America and the Global South during the Long 1970s","teaser":"We'll explore varied relationships between Americans and  Global South during the long 1970s—from the wave of revolutionary movements of the late 1960s to the Reagan\n “offensive” of 1981. As we trace these relationships across the decade, students will learn how\n Americans from all walks of life encountered the revolutionary “Third World.” While many on\n the American Left—from Black Nationalists to feminists such as Bella Abzug—sought\n cooperation with the revolutionary movements in the Global South, others became determined to\n reassert U.S. hegemony abroad following the Vietnam War. We will try to understand why this\n latter group’s antagonistic attitude towards the Global South ultimately came to define U.S.\n foreign policy.","info":"John M Rosenberg (Primary) / HIST 1979Z S01 / CRN: 16849","_id":"6M1o9H1CmOKhakY2"}
{"title":"Popular Culture, 1400-1800 (ITAL 1430)","teaser":"Interested students must register ITAL 1430 (CRN 15107).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"HIST 1980U S01 / CRN: 16650","_id":"6QR0hOTfZAY4N8DF"}
{"title":"Core Topics in Perception","teaser":"No description available. Open to graduate students only.","info":"Leslie Welch (Primary) / CLPS 2500 S01 / CRN: 15769","_id":"6X70N1Hh4gcs6mBn"}
{"title":"Physical Organic Chemistry","teaser":"Detailed examination of organic reaction mechanisms, reactive intermediates, and the methods employed for their characterization (e.g., kinetics, free energy relationships, isotope effects, molecular orbital theory, spectroscopy, and product distributions). Topics may include concerted, free radical, elimination, and photochemical reactions, and the chemistry of radicals, carbocations, carbanions, and carbenes. Prerequisites: CHEM 0500, CHEM 1140.","info":"Christopher Takakazu Seto (Primary) / CHEM 2410 S01 / CRN: 14909","_id":"6ax5NS23btnCYE55"}
{"title":"Writing and Speaking French II","teaser":"Prerequisite for study in French-speaking countries. Class time is devoted mainly to conversation and discussion practice. Writing instruction and assignments focus on essays, commentaries, and to a lesser degree, on story writing. Apart from reading assignments for discussion (press articles and literary excerpts), students select two novels to read. Prerequisite: FREN 0500 or placement. Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"Youenn Yves J. Kervennic (Primary) / FREN 0600 S01 / CRN: 15581","_id":"6gV7nersjqTWpcPh"}
{"title":"Advanced Oral and Written French: A table!","teaser":"Thematic units with different approaches to French cuisine and the French meal, such as regional cuisine, meals in literature and at the  movies, radio-TV culinary shows, political and economical  considerations, and, of course, a practical unit on how to compose,  prepare and eat a French meal. Follows FREN 0600 in the sequence of  language courses. Development of oral skills via presentations,  debates, conversation, and discussion based on the various topics.   Writing activities: essays, translations, commentaries, journals, creative descriptions and stories, etc. Taught in French.","info":"Annie J. Wiart (Primary) / FREN 1510C S01 / CRN: 16162","_id":"6rPDc6D4jsiOQaeS"}
{"title":"Sex, Power, and God: A Medieval Perspective","teaser":"Cross-dressing knights, virgin saints, homophobic priests, and mystics who speak in the language of erotic desire are but some of the medieval people considered in this seminar. This course examines how conceptions of sin, sanctity, and sexuality in the High Middle Ages intersected with structures of power in this period. While the seminar primarily focuses on Christian culture, it also considers Muslim and Jewish experience. Enrollment limited to 20. WRIT P","info":"Amy G. Remensnyder (Primary) / HIST 1963Q S01 / CRN: 14936","_id":"6s9Dz5TuCJnJh1zR"}
{"title":"Micro-Organizational Theory: Social Behavior in Organizations","teaser":"Micro-Organizational Theory focuses on the human dynamics of organizations as natural systems. It examines how individual attitudes, actions, and interactions make a difference for organizational processes and outcomes. This focus is contrasted with more macro-level approaches, which take the organization (instead of the individual) as the primary unit of analysis. For example, studies of organizations from an economic perspective are typically concerned with the performance of the organization relative to its competitors. Studies of organizations from a macro-sociological focus are typically concerned with an organization's routines and structures, contextualized by the broader environment. SOC 1311 takes a more micro and meso perspective that asks questions such as, \"why do individuals in organization behave the way they do, how does this affect the organizations of which they are a part and how, in turn, are individuals affected by their organizations?\"","info":"Mark C. Suchman (Primary) / SOC 1311 S01 / CRN: 15438","_id":"6yU6chQzGit1isA1"}
{"title":"Poetic Cosmologies","teaser":"This course will examine how various traditions within modern and contemporary poetry have addressed the question of materiality. Readings will range from poetic explorations of the archaeologies of place by William Carlos Williams and Charles Olson, to the investigations of non-human materialities of crystals, clouds and bacteria by writers such as Clark Coolidge, Christian Bök and Lisa Robertson.","info":"ENGL 0700Q S01 / CRN: 16761","_id":"738uT2k0tTrZhWhw"}
{"title":"Colonial Latin America","teaser":"Colonial Latin America, from Columbus's voyage in 1492 to Independence in the nineteenth century, was the creation of three peoples: Europeans, Native Americans, and Africans. Spanish and Portuguese conquerors brought with them the world of the Crusades, the Inquisition, and the Renaissance. Native Americans lived there already, in rich empires and hunter-gatherer bands. Africans came as slaves from Senegal, Nigeria, Congo and Angola, bringing old traditions and creating new ones. These diverse peoples blended together to form a new people. This was a place of violence, slavery and oppression -- but also of art, faith, new societies, new ideas.  P WRIT","info":"Jeremy R. Mumford (Primary) / HIST 0233 S01 / CRN: 15407","_id":"78zcZ88v2srqRg2B"}
{"title":"Diversity of Life","teaser":"This course will explore biological diversity – the number of taxa, and the functions, and processes that support life – from the perspectives of ecology and evolutionary biology. It will draw on examples and case studies from the geological record, functional morphology, the evolution of organ systems in vertebrates, genomics, behavior and sexual selection in birds and invertebrates. Overarching themes will emphasize that taxonomic diversity is an emergent property of complex life on Earth, and the importance of diversity of biological functions and processes in generating and maintaining taxonomic diversity. Class Restriction: Freshmen and sophomores; others by instructor permission.","info":"James R. Kellner (Primary) / BIOL 0210 S01 / CRN: 14837","_id":"7CGeBdTEYg5FUdYZ"}
{"title":"Slave Resistance and Moral Order in Environmental History","teaser":"This course is designed to examine the avenues by which enslaved persons redefined and re-appropriated the natural landscapes that kept them in bondage into direct forms of cultural and political resistance during the antebellum period.  We will investigate rice production in South Carolina, the Dismal Swamp, maroon societies, Negro Spirituals, and the Black Judeo-Christian ethic to understand how the natural environment and the institution of slavery shaped slave resistance in the United States.  This course is reading and writing intensive. DPLL WRIT","info":"Vanessa Fabien (Primary) / AFRI 1050T S01 / CRN: 16256","_id":"7D9k9qykQnRzPis1"}
{"title":"Language Theory and Curriculum Development","teaser":"Focuses on the application of language theory, methodology, and curriculum development procedure for classes enrolling English language learners. Participants focus on setting appropriate goals and objectives aligned with learning standards and develop appropriate curricula in several subject areas. Conducted in English.","info":"Maria F. Pacheco (Primary) / POBS 2010A S01 / CRN: 15561","_id":"7GFVkzcp8gNquKgg"}
{"title":"Dante in English Translation: Dante's World and the Invention of Modernity","teaser":"Primarily for students with no knowledge of Italian. Given in English. Concentrators in Italian should enroll in ITAL 1610; they are expected to read the material in the original. Close study and discussion of Dante's deployment of systems of retribution in the Inferno and rehabilitation in the Purgatorio with a view to imagining a society based on love and resistant to the effects of nascent capitalism and the money economy. Dante's work summarizes and transforms the entire ancient and medieval tradition of literature, philosophy, and science. WRIT","info":"Ronald L. Martinez (Primary) / ITAL 1010 S01 / CRN: 15591","_id":"7HIjtVkfsfOiIDdc"}
{"title":"Politics and Public Education","teaser":"Who exercises power in public education?  This course examines the key institutions (e.g. school districts, states, Congress, and the courts) and actors (e.g. parents, teachers, interest groups, and the general public) shaping American K-12 education in order to understand recent policy trends and their consequences for students.  Major policies discussed include school finance, textbook adoption, school accountability, and school choice.  Particular attention is given to the federal No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 and debates over its reauthorization.  Previous coursework in American politics or public policy is suggested but not required.","info":"John P. Papay (Primary) / EDUC 1060 S01 / CRN: 14647","_id":"7OJC4HXe8vwPFisz"}
{"title":"Senior Honors Seminar","teaser":"Open only to Senior students accepted into the honors program in international relations. Instructor permission required. WRIT","info":"Claudia Elliott (Primary) / INTL 1910 S01 / CRN: 16813","_id":"7WMaCtAcH2k3QFrI"}
{"title":"Advanced Russian","teaser":"Examines selected topics in Russian culture and history as depicted in readings, the media, and Russian and Soviet films. Language work emphasizes increasing facility with spoken Russian and developing writing skills. Includes work on advanced grammar and syntax. Five class meetings per week. Prerequisites: RUSS 0350 or RUSS 0400 or placement. Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"Lynne Debenedette (Primary) / RUSS 0500 S01 / CRN: 15986","_id":"7bMFJGP20N7YmJza"}
{"title":"Health Systems and Policy I","teaser":"This course will explore how multiple social determinants influence individual and population health; the laws and policies that shape the social environments in which patients live; and the role of physicians in advocating for systems and policy changes that will reduce health disparities and improve population health outcomes.","info":"Elizabeth T. Tyler (Primary) / MED 2010 S01 / CRN: 16938","_id":"7dbEfDpQM2dQppOS"}
{"title":"Digital Language Art I","teaser":"Project-oriented workshop for writers, visual/sound artists, filmmakers and programmers who wish to explore digital media techniques. No experience working in this field (or with computer programming) required. You'll learn through doing, reading, talking and collaborating on works in various traditions. Enrollment limited to 17. S/NC. WRIT","info":"LITR 0110D L01 / CRN: 15844","_id":"7gIVWW6edLZrLNvn"}
{"title":"The Psychology of Race, Class, and Gender","teaser":"Focuses on the social construction of race, class, and gender and how this construction influences an individual's perception of self and other individuals. Topics include identity development, achievement, motivation, and sociopolitical development. Enrollment limited to 30. WRIT","info":"Mona M. K. Abo-Zena (Primary) / EDUC 1430 S01 / CRN: 14637","_id":"7gh2pOycaiztekWZ"}
{"title":"The American Civil War ","teaser":"In this course we will investigate the \"felt histories\" of the American Civil War—the personal experiences of Americans (northerners and southerners, slaves and freed people, European immigrants and Native Americans, men and women) who fought its battles and bore its consequences. These histories, as Robert Penn Warren notes, are an \"index to the very complexity, depth, and fundamental significance\" of the conflict. In addition to military and political dimensions we will also examine constructions of Civil War memory (photography, film, and other media) and the dominant narratives that have shaped our understanding of the war since 1865. WRIT","info":"Michael Vorenberg (Primary) / HIST 0252 S01 / CRN: 15408","_id":"7m5vFqK8AngSkg3T"}
{"title":"Introduction to Western Music","teaser":"A study of a thousand years of music of Europe and America through CDs, DVDs, and YouTube.  We'll explore how individuals, institutions, and societies create music, use it, experience it, pay for it, and control it.  We'll discuss music and time, music and politics, music and identity.  Still, the heart of the course is listening to great music, and learning how it works.","info":"David Josephson (Primary) / MUSC 0010 S01 / CRN: 15905","_id":"7qTLrsH5je5AsgS4"}
{"title":"Wealth: Religious Perspectives (RELS 0025)","teaser":"Interested students must register for RELS 0025 (CRN 15990).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"JUDS 0602 S01 / CRN: 16345","_id":"7sbCYlrVkqOUauPP"}
{"title":"Intermediate Spanish I","teaser":"This course continues to develop and strengthen students' proficiency in the Spanish language, as well as to help them increase their cultural understanding. It seeks to develop both fluency and accuracy and to teach students to express, interpret, and negotiate meaning in context. Through the exploration of themes such as the individual and the community, health issues, traveling, multiculturalism and human rights, students focus on communication and learn to appreciate cultural differences. Pre-requisite: either HISP 0200, HISP 0110, or placement: SAT II scores between 460 and 510, or Brown Placement Exam scores between 341 and 410. Students with an AP score of 3 or below must take the Brown Placement Exam. Students should check Placement and Course Description in the Undergraduate Program section of the Hispanic Studies Website. Enrollment limited to 18; 15 spaces are available for students during pre-registration. 3 spaces will be available at the start of the semester for incoming or re-admitted students who should attend the first class. Pre-enrolled students must attend the first four days of class to maintain their pre-registered status and notify the instructor in advance if they must miss any day before the 4th class when the composition of the course section is finalized.","info":"Victoria P. Smith (Primary) / HISP 0300 S01 / CRN: 15490","_id":"7u0IzBmPu4utFq5H"}
{"title":"Biology of the Eukaryotic Cell","teaser":"Examines organelles and macromolecular complexes of eukaryotic cells with respect to structural and functional roles in major cellular activities. Emphasizes experimental basis for knowledge in modern cell biology using original literature, and discusses validity of current concepts. For advanced undergraduates and beginning graduate students. Complementary to BIOL 1270 and 1540. Prerequisites: BIOL 0280, 0470, 0500, or instructor permission. Graduate students register for BIOL 2050.","info":"Kenneth Raymond Miller (Primary) / BIOL 1050 C01 / CRN: 14714","_id":"8B7mMki3BuyIN42E"}
{"title":"Acting, Brown/Trinity Rep Consortium","teaser":"This course is open only to students of the Consortium. It will include fundamental exercises, textual analysis, rehearsal techniques, character and scene work designed to provide the student actor with a working method based upon the general principles of the Stanislavski system. A major part of this course will include rehearsal and performance responsibilities.","info":"Stephen Berenson (Primary) / TAPS 2500 S01 / CRN: 11008","_id":"8BrYP44GsGl8S8Yq"}
{"title":"Congress","teaser":"Takes a comprehensive view of the U.S. Congress, its structure, procedures, elections, parties, constituencies and its interactions with the president and the courts. The Constitution establishes the Congress as the first branch and guardian of the nation's purse strings. This course will examine the strengths and vulnerabilities of the modern Congress with its highly polarized political parties. Requires extensive reading, a detailed paper and active class participation. Students are expected to pay careful attention to current events in the U.S Congress. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors and seniors in Political Science.","info":"Richard A. Arenberg (Primary) / POLS 1822C S01 / CRN: 16565","_id":"8EG35PmXdkAUAh2R"}
{"title":"Advanced Articulation Tutorial","teaser":"This course is an advanced pronunciation tutorial for international graduate students who have achieved a near-native speaker level of fluency in English, but who require greater precision of English articulations, pronunciation, fluency and/or expression. Instructor permission required.","info":"Barbara Gourlay (Primary) / EINT 2500 S01 / CRN: 14810","_id":"8FpgJN5iRzCJkK4Q"}
{"title":"Crime and Punishment through Literature","teaser":"The seminar will explore how texts of different epochs and cultures, ranging from Ancient to Modern and from drama to poem, novel, and film treat the issues of transgression, punishment, justice, and forgiveness. We will examine each text both in terms of its artistic merit and its place within its cultural and historical milieu. Enrollment limited to 20 first-year students. FYS WRIT","info":"Vladimir Golstein (Primary) / RUSS 0320E S01 / CRN: 15997","_id":"8J76ruBqxzyw3Gt4"}
{"title":"The Political Economy of Labor and Development","teaser":"Will examine an array of issues facing labor in today's global world. Recent developments have created a mix of opportunities and risks for labor in developing countries.  Trends have encouraged foreign direct investment and diffusion of global supply chains, which in turn, have promoted economic development and job growth for some groups of workers in some of these countries. Globalization and liberalization have undermined social safety nets, eroded labor and environmental standards, and resulted in greater rates of poverty for other groups of workers in other developing countries.  Will address these differences and how to more evenly distribute the benefits.","info":"Richard M. Locke (Primary) / POLS 2155 S01 / CRN: 15776","_id":"8Nm1cb9ww3F60RHB"}
{"title":"Troy Rocks! Archaeology of an Epic","teaser":"What do Brad Pitt, Julius Caesar, Dante, Alexander the Great, and countless sports teams have in common? The Trojan War! This course will explore the Trojan War not only through the archaeology, art, and mythology of the Greeks and Romans but also through the popular imaginings of cultures ever since, to figure out what \"really\" happened when Helen ran off and Achilles got angry and the Greeks came bearing gifts. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS.","info":"ARCH 0270 S01 / CRN: 16182","_id":"8O82tL7kWUWFTp3h"}
{"title":"Viral Epidemics","teaser":"This sophomore seminar will examine epidemics (outbreaks) of viral infections from a historical perspective. We will also cover current literature and up to the minute news accounts of infectious disease related outbreaks occurring around the globe. The major focus will be on virus related diseases but any microbial outbreak in the news will be explored. The seminar will cover basic aspects of microbial pathogenesis so students can gain an appreciation of microbial host interactions. Essential writing skills will also be developed. Enrollment limited to 20 sophomore students. WRIT SOPH","info":"Walter J. Atwood (Primary) / BIOL 0940A S01 / CRN: 14712","_id":"8ODt2LKz6jZJiXX7"}
{"title":"Second-Year Arabic","teaser":"Develops listening, speaking, reading and writing skills at the intermediate level of language proficiency through extensive use of various texts and multimedia. Promotes a better understanding of the Arabic cultural traditions. Six contact hours weekly, plus written, audio, and video assignments outside of class. Prerequisite: ARAB 0200. This is the first half of a year-long course whose first semester grade is normally a temporary one. Neither semester may be elected independently without special written permission. The final grade at the end of the course work in ARAB 0400 covers the entire year and is recorded as the final grade for both semesters. If course is full, please sign the wait list in Room 205, 195 Angell Street.","info":"Mirena Christoff (Primary) / ARAB 0300 S01 / CRN: 14696","_id":"8P40iwV2uURukTBZ"}
{"title":"Music and Modern Life","teaser":"Examines topics related to the everyday use of music: the determinants of musical taste; music for emotional self-management (in the health club or Iraq War); \"high\" vs. \"low\" music; eclectic taste; popular music and the music industry; mp3blogs; new business models. Readings (in sociology, history, and cultural studies) and original field research by class members. Instructor permission required. Enrollment limited to 20. WRIT","info":"Marc A. Perlman (Primary) / MUSC 1920 S01 / CRN: 16012","_id":"8RhLMuHRHNE6Fdid"}
{"title":"Logic","teaser":"An introduction to perhaps the most fundamental tool of rational thought: deductive logic. Course begins with basic sentential logic, then moves on to deduction, quantification, and prediction. Argumentation and reasoning may also be addressed at times. No previous experience with logic or philosophy is required.","info":"Richard Heck (Primary) / PHIL 0540 S01 / CRN: 15080","_id":"8SpACpxZwAh603M4"}
{"title":"Shakespeare: The Screenplays","teaser":"It's been said that if Shakespeare were alive today he'd be working in Hollywood.  We will read five or six plays (including at least one representative of each of Shakespeare's genres: comedy, history, tragedy, romance) and then study film adaptations of them.  The course is especially concerned with various approaches to the Shakespeare film: not just the straightforward adaptation, but also the Shakespeare spin-off (\"10 Things\"; \"My Own Private Idaho\"), the Shakespeare film as a star-turn (Helen Mirren as \"Prospera\" in Taymor's \"Tempest\"), and the Shakespeare film as an auteur-turn (Orson Welles's \"Chimes at Midnight\"; Polanski's \"Macbeth\").","info":"Richard M. Rambuss (Primary) / ENGL 0310E S01 / CRN: 15468","_id":"8VDrHo6iW30Yzt5o"}
{"title":"Biological Design: Structural Architecture of Organisms","teaser":"Many questions about the workings of living creatures can be answered by joining math, physics, and biology. We will identify basic physical science concepts that help biologists understand the structure and function of animals, plants, and microorganisms, and use these to study how the physical world constrains and facilitates the evolution of the extraordinary design and diversity of organisms.  For first and second year students; others by permission. Recommended background: BIOL 0200, or equivalent. Enrollment limited to 40.  Instructor permission required. WRIT","info":"Sharon M. Swartz (Primary) / BIOL 0400 S01 / CRN: 16727","_id":"8VQuNBdGwpHPJlsW"}
{"title":"Modern Chinese Literature","teaser":"Introduces students to the most representative writers in 20th century China. Emphasizes textual and historical analyses. Major issues include Westernization, nationalism, revolution, class, gender, and literary innovations. Designated primarily as a literature course, rather than language class, and conducted entirely in Mandarin Chinese. Prerequisite: CHIN 0800. Instructor permission required.","info":"Lingzhen Wang (Primary) / CHIN 1040 S01 / CRN: 14991","_id":"8Zpo5F1UyNamNHEB"}
{"title":"Research Essay: The Thoughtful Generalist","teaser":"This section of “ENGL1030: Critical Reading and Writing II: Research” will prepare you for academic and real world discourse. We will study essays by well-regarded writers as examples of deep research distilled into engaging intellectual journey. In practice you will generate, research, plan, draft, and revise four essays, moving from explanatory to analytical to persuasive essays, and culminating in a final research project grappling with varied sources to explore a subject, issue, or artist of your choice. Enrollment limited to 17. Writing sample may be required. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC.","info":"Elizabeth Taylor (Primary) / ENGL 1030A S01 / CRN: 15403","_id":"8bFuK0mngtdJviIH"}
{"title":"Flash Nonfiction","teaser":"The nonfiction \"short\" is an old and shape-shifting form, ranging from 250 to 2000 words. You will study and imitate historical and contemporary short forms of the nonfiction list, scene, letter, prose poem, essay, memoir, story, profile, and history. Inspirations will come from international and North American authors -- including Jean Toomer, Kenneth Koch, Margaret Atwood, Amy Hempel, Naomi Shihab Nye, John Edgar Wideman, Richard Rodriguez, and Dave Eggers. Enrollment limited to 17. Writing sample required. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval.  S/NC.","info":"Elizabeth Taylor (Primary) / ENGL 1050K S01 / CRN: 15395","_id":"8bLnOv8QLIX0zPby"}
{"title":"On the Dawn of Modernity","teaser":"We will analyze how a new mindset that would later be called modernity slowly emerged from the medieval world and how the trials and errors of the 15th and 16th century navigators helped shape that transformation. The seminar is interdisciplinary insofar as the readings will include developments in astronomy, geography, shipbuilding, mathematics, philosophy, as well as what could be called early anthropology, as stepping stones to the first scientific revolution. Conducted in English.  Enrollment limited to: 20.  Reserved for First Year students. FYS LILE WRIT","info":"Onesimo T. Almeida (Primary) / POBS 0910 S01 / CRN: 15542","_id":"8e0jw24CwJJUL3O3"}
{"title":"Animal Cognition","teaser":"A seminar focusing on the experimental analysis of animal mental processes such as perception, attention, learning, memory, and decision-making. Some specific topics include navigation, visual search, working memory, time perception and memory, song learning in birds, and concept formation. Prerequisite: advanced lab.","info":"Ruth Melanie Colwill (Primary) / CLPS 1100 S01 / CRN: 15726","_id":"8e5yEOVCHyF8nrrJ"}
{"title":"Writing and the Ruins of Empire","teaser":"An exploration of literary representations of \"empire\" and \"imperialism\" from the 18th century to the present. Readings in Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Volney's Ruins of Empire, and a wide range of 19th- and 20th-century texts. Some consideration of theories of imperialism and of visual representations of cultures of empire. Enrollment limited to 20. Prior coursework in 18th- and 19th-century literature advised. WRIT","info":"William Keach (Primary) / ENGL 1561D S01 / CRN: 15626","_id":"8fq3pdokIDm77TWn"}
{"title":"Third-Year Arabic","teaser":"Offers comprehensive training in listening, speaking, reading, and writing, with grammar review as needed. Broadens students' perspective of Arabic culture using selections from the classical and modern traditions of Arabic writing and various art forms. Five contact hours weekly. Prerequisite: ARAB 0400.","info":"Miled Faiza (Primary) / ARAB 0500 S01 / CRN: 14698","_id":"8jDPRqblCYRjtDMk"}
{"title":"The Idea of Self","teaser":"Literature gestures us toward a certain kind of knowledge not quite psychological, not quite philosophical. We read widely in the classical and medieval traditions in order to gauge the peculiar nature of what this knowledge tells us about experience and the ways in which expressions of selfhood abide or are changed over time. Authors include but are not limited to Sappho, Pindar, Catullus, Horace, Augustine, and Fortunatus. LILE WRIT","info":"Joseph Michael Pucci (Primary) / CLAS 1120G S01 / CRN: 15934","_id":"8jcVCOjIw73Zvhlw"}
{"title":"Empires in America to 1890","teaser":"This course surveys the development of American foreign relations from initial encounters between Native Americans and newly arrived Europeans to the extension of EuroAmerican power beyond the continental United States. By being attentive to a wider global context, we will attempt to understand the trajectory of \"America\" from a colonial hinterland to dominant world power. DPLL WRIT","info":"John M Rosenberg (Primary) / HIST 1553 S01 / CRN: 15423","_id":"8okXOr6eKqROrDT0"}
{"title":"Introduction to Public Health","teaser":"An introductory overview of the U.S. Public Health System with an emphasis on the core functions of public health, challenges and strategies for working with communities, and specific health issues that impact the health of the population. Presents a comprehensive overview of the environmental and behavior factors associated with health promotion and disease prevention. LILE","info":"Melissa A. Clark (Primary) / PHP 0320 S01 / CRN: 16210","_id":"8pr9qXY37YIU4wR3"}
{"title":"Acting: Shakespeare and Moliere","teaser":"This is a two-credit course and is open only to students of the MFA Consortium program. This is a scene study class with an emphasis on the problems of style and language in the plays of Moliere and Shakespeare.","info":"Stephen Berenson (Primary) / TAPS 2600 S01 / CRN: 11012","_id":"8rfMtnaioccM23MS"}
{"title":"Strategies of Inquiry and Research Design","teaser":"Introduction to research methods common in political science research. Topics include theory development, problems of explanation and causation, problem identification, research design, and other fundamentals of empirical research.  FIRST YEAR POLITICAL SCIENCE GRADUATE STUDENTS ONLY.  Enrollment limited to 14.","info":"Rebecca B. Weitz-Shapiro (Primary) / POLS 2000 S01 / CRN: 15046","_id":"8wRZgaDZK6YjXQwj"}
{"title":"Comparative Policies: Analyzing Policy Making Around the Globe","teaser":"Who determines how public policy is made? Do public policies reflect what voters want, or do lobbyists, politicians, and bureaucrats really make the decisions?  What factors motivate these different actors?\nThis course examines public policy from the perspective of comparative politics. Over the course of the semester, we will examine policy making in the US and a number of industrialized countries in Western Europe and Japan.  Topics studied include immigration policy, education policy, and family policy.\n  Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS WRIT","info":"Andrew Pennock (Primary) / PLCY 0700J S01 / CRN: 15120","_id":"92LHH2cf4N6Cia3t"}
{"title":"Causal Reasoning","teaser":"This seminar will concern the principles and processes by which people learn causal knowledge and engage in causal inference, including prediction, explanation, and counterfactual reasoning. Some emphasis will be on probabilistic models of causal inference and on the development of causal reasoning in young children. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors, seniors, and graduate students.","info":"David M. Sobel (Primary) / CLPS 1241 S01 / CRN: 15717","_id":"943IPLKSfSXrFJKF"}
{"title":"Prophets and Priests in Exile: Biblical Literature of the 6th Century BCE (JUDS 1690)","teaser":"Interested students must register for JUDS 1690 (CRN 15654).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"RELS 1600B S01 / CRN: 16328","_id":"9ABeGv2sZtUBdNWR"}
{"title":"Formal Semantics (CLPS 1342)","teaser":"Interested students must register for CLPS 1342 (CRN 15762).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"LING 1342 S01 / CRN: 16823","_id":"9AxhnnYsHeYUIufU"}
{"title":"Intermediate Chinese","teaser":"An intermediate course in Standard Chinese designed to further communicative competence and to develop reading and writing skills. Five classroom meetings weekly. Prerequisite: CHIN 0200 or permission of instructor.","info":"Hsin-I Tseng (Primary) / CHIN 0300 S01 / CRN: 14969","_id":"9BRT5iX7cFpZc3KE"}
{"title":"Introduction to Biblical Hebrew","teaser":"An intensive introduction to the fundamentals of biblical Hebrew grammar and vocabulary intended to prepare students to read biblical texts in the original language. For students with little or no prior knowledge of Hebrew.","info":"Saul Olyan (Primary) / JUDS 0090A S01 / CRN: 14670","_id":"9DlUJA801JDTDFRW"}
{"title":"On Cultural and Personal Identity","teaser":"A close analysis of concepts such as cultural and personal identities by means of a variety of interdisciplinary readings, including a combination of essays and a set of works of literature by diverse authors from various countries and cultures. SOPH","info":"Onesimo T. Almeida (Primary) / POBS 0915 S01 / CRN: 15543","_id":"9FfQGtoIsQ8qVZSP"}
{"title":"Computing as Done in Brains and Computers","teaser":"Brains and computers compute in different ways. We will discuss the software and hardware of brains and computers and with introduction to the way brains are organized, the way computers are organized, and why they are good at such different things. We will talk about our current research, the Ersatz Brain Project, an attempt to design a first-class second-class brain. Enrollment limited to 15 first year students.  FYS","info":"James A. Anderson (Primary) / CLPS 0050A S01 / CRN: 15723","_id":"9GheMbBv4KNUq1GV"}
{"title":"Population and Society","teaser":"Introduces some of the major social issues relating to population size, growth, and change in industrialized and developing nations. Mortality, fertility, and migration levels and trends are analyzed.  Also considers contemporary issues, such as HIV/AIDS epidemic, population aging, U.S. immigration, and national and international population policy debates.","info":"Susan Short (Primary) / SOC 0200 S01 / CRN: 15513","_id":"9MRpEvQWZK88ceIl"}
{"title":"Russian Literature in Translation I: Pushkin to Dostoevsky","teaser":"Survey of major works of Russian literature of the early and mid-19th century. Authors to be studied include Karamzin, Pushkin, Lermontov, Gogol, Turgenev, Leskov, and Dostoevsky. Lectures and discussion. No knowledge of Russian required. Discussion sections to be arranged.  WRIT","info":"Alexander Levitsky (Primary) / RUSS 1290 S01 / CRN: 15991","_id":"9VdNo7nxpCTnOLsZ"}
{"title":"Introduction to the Theory of Literature","teaser":"An historical introduction to problems of literary theory from the classical to the postmodern. Issues to be examined include mimesis, rhetoric, hermeneutics, history, psychoanalysis, formalisms and ideological criticism (questions of race, gender, sexuality, postcolonialism). Primarily for advanced undergraduates. Lectures, discussions; several short papers.","info":"Susan Bernstein (Primary) / COLT 1210 S01 / CRN: 15074","_id":"9Zgph5NGuCo89aXN"}
{"title":"Political Movements in Twentieth-Century America","teaser":"Political movements in the United States in the twentieth century. History and theory. Highlights of the course include: populism, progressivism, segregationism, first wave feminism, labor movement, civil rights, new left, second wave feminism, new right. The course focuses on the origins, nature, ideologies, and outcomes of major political movements on both left and right in the twentieth century United States.  WRIT","info":"Robert O. Self (Primary) / HIST 1531 S01 / CRN: 15420","_id":"9b9YHzswQ2vmAtKh"}
{"title":"Conservation Biology","teaser":"Conservation Biology is the scientific study of the phenomena that affect the maintenance, loss, and restoration of biological diversity.  Topics covered include: 1) the impacts of global warming, species invasions, and habitat destruction on biodiversity, 2) strategies developed to combat these threats, and 3) a consideration of key economic and ethical tradeoffs.  Special attention will be paid to current debate and controversy within this rapidly emerging field of study.  Readings will include the primary literature.  A term-paper will be required. Prerequisite: BIOL 0420 or instructor permission. Enrollment limited to 30.","info":"Dov Sax (Primary) / BIOL 1470 S01 / CRN: 14745","_id":"9g4kaNybvrguWLrD"}
{"title":"Tonal Counterpoint","teaser":"The contrapuntal techniques of the 18th century with emphasis on music of Bach. Written exercises in and analysis of several genres including fugue. Prerequisite: MUSC 0560 or permission of instructor.","info":"MUSC 1030 S01 / CRN: 16011","_id":"9gH60c6I3NKeuV1H"}
{"title":"Writing and Methods in Political Theory I (POLS 2121)","teaser":"Interested students must register for POLS 2121 (CRN 16245).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"MCM 2310J S01 / CRN: 16536","_id":"9hvSZVnPZNEztPId"}
{"title":"Fifth Century Survey","teaser":"We begin with Pindar and read poetry and prose literature composed throughout the fifth century, with attention to its historical development styles, and the intellectual ideas that drive it.","info":"Adele C. Scafuro (Primary) / GREK 1820 S01 / CRN: 15947","_id":"9kqUbJPw3OG7W9y7"}
{"title":"Animal Histories","teaser":"Animals have been people’s energy, food, wealth, gods, hobbies, icons, and companions. Wild and domesticated non-human animals are essential yet often invisible historical subjects. This seminar makes them visible by tracking them through time—ancient, modern, and contemporary—on every continent.  They are often symbols, but we look beyond animals as represented by people. We are more interested in them as actors and subjects with agency. By pushing at the boundaries of what constitutes legitimate topics, this seminar serves as a critical introduction to the historical discipline.  FYS WRIT","info":"Nancy J. Jacobs (Primary) / HIST 0582A S01 / CRN: 15414","_id":"9m7lJGQIHkx4B21F"}
{"title":"Advanced Korean","teaser":"Aims to help students develop an advanced level of communicative competence, with special focus on enhancing their reading comprehension, essay writing, and discourse (discussion  and presentation) skills.  Authentic reading materials from a variety of sources will be used to introduce various topics and issues pertaining to Korean society and culture, thus students' cultural understanding will also be enhanced.  Prerequisite:  KREA 0400 or equivalent or permission of instructor.","info":"Hye-Sook Wang (Primary) / KREA 0500 S01 / CRN: 14975","_id":"9owwLHvH43AyMApo"}
{"title":"Fuels, Energy, Power and the Environment","teaser":"The course will explore where the majority of \"useful\" energy originates today. Main fossil energy sources (e.g., coal, crude oil, gas, shale oil, tar sands) and their chemical characteristics will be considered. Environmental aspects of fuel production (mining, drilling), fuel conversion technologies, both for delivering heat and power, and why there are limitations on the conversion to the latter. Calculations of \"carbon footprint\" will be illustrated. Common examples of emissions control technologies, including carbon capture and sequestration, will be presented. Policy and social implications of these energy issues will be discussed. Prerequisites: CHEM 0330 and ENGN 0720.","info":"Indrek Kulaots (Primary) / ENGN 1931P S01 / CRN: 16489","_id":"9rdNEuf83u7qS4Cx"}
{"title":"Public Health/Community Service Internship","teaser":"The course is an introduction to the history, organization, resources, concepts and issues of public health and health care. Students will be matched according to their interests in a related practical experience in a health-related organization, with the expectation that they complete a project or produce a product of public health utility. This gives students an opportunity to critically apply knowledge and skills learned in didactic sessions. Instructor permission required.","info":"Patrick M. Vivier (Primary) / PHP 2070 S01 / CRN: 16855","_id":"9ybVWGUhBI3KPotf"}
{"title":"Kant's Moral Philosophy","teaser":"An introduction to the central themes of Kant's moral philosophy, including autonomy, freedom, happiness, obligation, and virtue. Kant's position in the history of moral philosophy will also be considered. Readings to include all of Kant's major writings in this field, thus Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals, Critique of Practical Reason, Religion within the Boundaries of Mere Reason, and Metaphysics of Morals, as well as several essays and lectures. Work will include two short papers and one term paper.","info":"Paul D. Guyer (Primary) / PHIL 1290 S01 / CRN: 15473","_id":"A0BCRmYOP9cqrlIM"}
{"title":"Writing and Methods in Political Theory I","teaser":"The study of politics requires  historical and analytic, interpretive and normative, critical and geneaological, humanist and post-humanist methods. We will first look at reading and discussing assigned methodological material on language, interpretation, causality, history, gender, and genre, all relevant to the various approaches to political thought. Second will be the circulation, presentation and critique of graduate student papers. Each participant will be expected to present a pre-circulated, article length paper, and respond to a designated discussant, as well as field questions from seminar participants. The aim is to help students learn how to prepare their work for publication.","info":"Bonnie H. Honig (Primary) / POLS 2121 S01 / CRN: 16245","_id":"A48kVb6l7utf3Uv1"}
{"title":"Human Trafficking, Transnationalism, and the Law","teaser":"Designed to give students an opportunity to engage in transnational research on social issues through an extended case study of a new generation of international norms that identify and combat \"human trafficking.\" The course format combines seminar discussions, lectures, and small group exercises. Students will learn by doing. As we consider legal instruments, UN and U.S. documentary archives, anti-trafficking media such as films and websites, and the prosecution of criminal networks, we will experiment with alternative methodologies for analyzing them. We will study the relation of texts to the social and political contexts of their production and circulation. Enrollment limited to 30. DPLL LILE WRIT","info":"Kay B. Warren (Primary) / ANTH 1224 S01 / CRN: 16196","_id":"A4lN5rcv01DgJcBv"}
{"title":"Jews and Revolution (JUDS 1701)","teaser":"Interested students must register for JUDS 1701 (CRN 15652).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"HIST 1961A S01 / CRN: 16360","_id":"A8SqqKCVP87g5ora"}
{"title":"Introduction to Modern Greek","teaser":"Designed for students with little or no prior knowledge of Modern Greek. The aim is to introduce students to basic linguistic structures and develop the ability to comprehend and produce text, as well as to speak and understand speech, in a variety of contexts and registers. The course objectives are to enable students to perform a range of tasks, master a minimum core vocabulary and acquire knowledge and understanding of various forms of Greek culture.","info":"Elissavet Amanatidou (Primary) / MGRK 0100 S01 / CRN: 15932","_id":"AQbviIMGb17v7lHC"}
{"title":"Theory of Economic Growth","teaser":"Analysis of the fundamental elements that determine economic growth. It examines the role of technological progress, population growth, income inequality, and government policy in the determination of (a) the pattern of economic development within a country, and (b) sustainable differences in per capita income and growth rates across countries. Prerequisites: ECON 1210 and either APMA 0330, 0350 (or equivalent), MATH 0180, 0200, or 0350 (or equivalent). Enrollment limited to 100.","info":"Oded Galor (Primary) / ECON 1850 S01 / CRN: 15187","_id":"AT4vauHybQh55KlY"}
{"title":"Proseminar in American Politics","teaser":"Introduction to broad issues in American politics. Topics include the interplay of political institutions in the American setting,\n public opinion formation, the process of policy-making, and voting behavior.  Enrollment limited to 14. Graduate students only; qualified undergraduates with instructor permission.","info":"Wendy J. Schiller (Primary) / POLS 2100 S01 / CRN: 15048","_id":"ATGwhlswzQ2VQnFT"}
{"title":"Women in Early Modern England","teaser":"Selected topics in the social history of early modern England (c.1500-1800), with particular emphasis on the experiences of women. Themes to be addressed will include the family, working life, education, crime, politics, religion, and the early feminists. Not open to freshmen sophomores. P","info":"Timothy J. G. Harris (Primary) / HIST 1964D S01 / CRN: 14930","_id":"AYKo92b4nPlJ0N2K"}
{"title":"Le Siècle de Voltaire:  naissance du philosophe","teaser":"A presentation of various aspects of the French Enlightenment through its principal representative philosopher: Voltaire.  This course examines his various preoccupations: with philosophy, the combat against religion, the pursuit of toleration and freedom, the defense of human rights. Readings in Voltaire’s contes, his major plays, various entries from his famous Dictionnaire philosophique, treatises and pamphlets. Taught in French.","info":"Pierre Saint-Amand (Primary) / FREN 1050J S01 / CRN: 16171","_id":"AZPREJDrzuqx8rq9"}
{"title":"Themes in Japanese Buddhism","teaser":"An exploration of critical themes and debates in the study of Japanese Buddhism. Participants become conversant with the key features of medieval Japanese thought as well as the strengths and weaknesses of established conceptual models in Japanese Buddhist studies. Readings include primary texts in English translation and modern secondary interpretations. Recommended: a course in Buddhism or East Asian religions. DPLL LILE","info":"Janine T. Anderson Sawada (Primary) / RELS 1440 S01 / CRN: 15877","_id":"Ad33JlzHpsDwyk4c"}
{"title":"Scientific Communication","teaser":"Focused on the effective dissemination of scientific information.  Through practical examples of activities common to the profession (writing a grant proposal, presenting research work orally, and preparing a critical review of a submitted scientific manuscript), students will develop the skills necessary to effectively communicate scientific ideas, experiments and results. Each of the activities will be dissected into key sets that will be individually developed with the aid of interactive discussions and peer review. Enrollment limited to 12 graduate students.","info":"Judith L. Bender (Primary) / BIOL 2150 S01 / CRN: 14729","_id":"AgfE2TTRHs4ZHV7x"}
{"title":"Blood Substitutes: Principles and Therapeutics Development","teaser":"Blood serves many critical functions including respiratory gas transport, hemostasis and\n host defense. Plasma and cellular components of blood, their functional mechanisms,\npathophysiologic consequencies when deficient and current treatments will be reviewed. Finally, development of blood component substitutive therapeutics (blood substitutes) based on protein and cellular engineering technologies (biotherapeutics) will be discussed. Open to Graduates students and Juniors and Seniors who meet the pre-requisites BIOL 0800 and BIOL 0280 or with instructor's permission.","info":"Hae W Kim (Primary) / BIOL 2245 S01 / CRN: 16362","_id":"AjBCFU0rPPQ1Bxwv"}
{"title":"Objects of (and in) Animation","teaser":"The course focuses on the notion of animation as a general concept. This includes more than just the genre of animation films. It also includes the animation of objects that are neither organic nor alive: The animation of the machine. The technical object plays here an important role The focus will be on the discussion of concepts of film as medium of animation per se and on different procedures of animating. Our debates here will cover: cartoon, the digital, experimental and animated effects in film. The aim is to gain a deeper understanding of the animated character of film.\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"MCM 2120H S01 / CRN: 16025","_id":"AkOIVeChQ4zo2OK1"}
{"title":"Painting II","teaser":"The advanced class covers information beyond the introductory level. Individual criticism is emphasized. Students are required to complete all structured assignments and to participate in regularly scheduled discussions. Prerequisite: VISA 0100 or VISA 0110, and VISA 1310. This course will be restricted to 18 VISA Concentrators and others by permission of the instructor. 10 seats will be available during pre-registration. Students who are not admitted during pre-registration or were unable to pre-register are advised to attend the first meeting of the class.","info":"Wendy Edwards (Primary) / VISA 1320 S01 / CRN: 16194","_id":"AkjiADqsqnd3UrrZ"}
{"title":"Latin American Historiography","teaser":"This course examines the development of historical writings on Latin America produced in the United States from the late nineteenth century until the present.  We will focus on themes, such as race, gender, labor, subaltern studies, dependency theory, postcolonial analysis, and post-modernism, to understand the diverse approaches to Latin American history. M","info":"James N. Green (Primary) / HIST 2971E S01 / CRN: 14870","_id":"An7Wpt6vYloICnM1"}
{"title":"Hip Hop Music and Cultures","teaser":"This course will explore both the history of the emergence of Hip Hop and the heated debates that surround it: aesthetics, censorship, sexism, violence, musical theft, originality, authenticity, the politics of cross-racial exchanges, urban black nihilism, and corporate influences on culture.  These debates will be framed by our consideration of urban black life, African-American cultural formations, gender, representation, technology, commodification, pleasure and politics. Enrollment limited to 200. DPLL","info":"Tricia Rose (Primary) / AFRI 0880 S01 / CRN: 16232","_id":"Ao1B2lV3Sw1GzBT7"}
{"title":"Introduction to Turkish Language and Culture I","teaser":"This is a proficiency oriented introductory course to Turkish Language and Culture. It adopts and integrated skills approach and is designed for students with little or no prior knowledge of Turkish.  The course combines an emphasis on the development of communicative competences with an understanding of language structures and grammar as well as insights into Modern Turkish society and culture.\n The aim is to introduce students to basic linguistic structures and develop the ability to comprehend and produce text, as well as to speak and understand speech, in a variety of contexts and registers. Enrollment limited to 18. DPLL","info":"Ercan Balci (Primary) / TKSH 0100 S01 / CRN: 14811","_id":"AqVO5dbPqLgFwOia"}
{"title":"Models of Computation","teaser":"The course introduces basic models of computation including languages, finite-state automata and Turing machines. Proves fundamental limits on computation (incomputability, the halting problem). Provides the tools to compare the hardness of computational problems (reductions). Introduces computational complexity classes (P, NP, PSPACE and others). Prerequisite: CSCI 0220 or 0450.","info":"Anna A. Lysyanskaya (Primary) / CSCI 0510 S01 / CRN: 15981","_id":"Aqncgvd1TUw2fIod"}
{"title":"Principles of Exercise Physiology","teaser":"Application of the basic principles of physiology to the study of the response mechanisms of the human body during exercise. Topics include muscle and neural control, energy metabolism, cardiovascular and respiratory effects, endocrinology, principles of training, and special topics (e.g., diving, high altitude, and microgravity). Student presentations based on scientific articles are included. Expected: BIOL 0800 or written permission of the instructor.","info":"Chi-Ming Hai (Primary) / BIOL 1160 S01 / CRN: 14779","_id":"Arqh0KdZK06rRC8A"}
{"title":"The Economics of Mass Media","teaser":"The mass media shape our culture and politics but are also shaped by their economic incentives.\n In this course we will use tools from microeconomics and econometrics to study the effects of\n mass media on economic, social and political behavior, and to study the factors that shape media\n content and availability. We will develop implications for business and public policy. Students will\n complete weekly readings, bi-weekly assignments, a take-home midterm, and a final paper and\n presentation. Class time will be devoted to a mix of lecture and discussion of readings and lecture\n topics. WRIT","info":"Jesse M. Shapiro (Primary) / ECON 1400 S01 / CRN: 15164","_id":"AsbbCt4Zd8JsNqU8"}
{"title":"Practicum and Seminar in Elementary Education","teaser":"Students participate in an elementary classroom for 2 1/2 days a week for 12 weeks, participating in all aspects of the school day. Students assume responsibility for individualized instruction, small groups and some daily routines. Examines topics in child development; race, class, ethnic and linguistic diversity; assessment; teaching and learning as well as topics arising from the experiences in classrooms. S/NC.","info":"Sarah R. Leibel (Primary) / EDUC 2120 S01 / CRN: 14659","_id":"AvD4d5RgrOXuBvs3"}
{"title":"Regulation and Compliance","teaser":"This course is designed to prepare students for work in heavily regulated policy arenas (which is pretty much all of them). You will receive training in the disciplines necessary to design regulations, evaluate compliance options, and generate regulatory analyses that policymakers will find persuasive. This is a practitioner’s course. As such, it is first and foremost a quantitative class. Familiarity with the basic concepts of microeconomics and statistics is assumed.","info":"PLCY 2655 S01 / CRN: 15116","_id":"B535gRtWrA9rBW76"}
{"title":"\"Furies from Hell\" to \"Femi-Nazis\": A History of Modern Anti-Feminism","teaser":"Women have faced a deep antipathy at nearly every turn in their struggles for civic and social inclusion.  These denials of women’s rights often take the form of commentaries—sometimes vicious ones—about women’s general natures, bodies, and fitness for public life.  Women are consistently tagged with various labels of otherness: opponents of women’s rights deem them irrational, unnatural, traitors to society, even sexual deviants.  This course will examine the dangers that women allegedly represent to social stability from the Enlightenment to today, as well as how women have fought back to assert their rights and independence.","info":"Kelly R. Colvin (Primary) / HIST 1965N S02 / CRN: 16783","_id":"B8GJ6XgY8WLGIMRb"}
{"title":"MPPB Professional Development Seminar","teaser":"Professional development seminar required of all first year graduate students in the  Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology Graduate Program, and open to graduate students in other programs.  Topics include grants and funding, effective oral presentation skills, alternative careers in science, and others.  All students will be required to present a research seminar during the scheduled class time.\nInstructor permission required for graduate students outside the Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology Graduate Program.  Not intended for undergraduate students.","info":"Diana M. Horrigan (Primary) / BIOL 2190 S01 / CRN: 14792","_id":"BELwXlhuFFVYpHP6"}
{"title":"Welfare Economics and Social Choice Theory","teaser":"This is an advanced microeconomic theory class for undergraduates.\n Building on the intermediate microeconomics course, the approach is more formal and mathematically more rigorous, presenting arguments and expecting students\n to carefully develop techniques in order to understand and produce logical proofs. Topics\n include the efficiency and coalitional stability properties of markets, as well as other mechanisms\n to allocate resources. Market failures are discussed, including advanced treatments\n of externalities, public goods, and asymmetric information. The second part of the course\n will discuss a number of topics in social choice theory, including different normative criteria\n of compensation, life and death choices, majority voting, Arrow’s impossibility theorem.","info":"Roberto Serrano (Primary) / ECON 1170 S01 / CRN: 15183","_id":"BHHY6SvmkSREtp5z"}
{"title":"Digital Photography","teaser":"A thematic photography course oriented around landscape photography and related art forms. Readings and slide presentations will explore important concepts in the history of landscape photography including the sublime, the picturesque, the document, ideas of place and displacement, war and environmentalism. Class will be discussion, slideshow, studio and critique. Several field trips and exploration of historical photographic methods including cyanotype, pinhole and large format photography. Prior experience in photography preferred not required.  A digital SLR type camera may be checked out from the Department. Prerequisite: VISA 0100, VISA 0110.","info":"VISA 1520 S02 / CRN: 16820","_id":"BJ0ugRNzkhQzvxby"}
{"title":"Ideas, Institutions and Politics","teaser":"A Graduate level survey of the literatures on institutions and ideas in political science, and on occasion, in related fields. These literatures are often seen as rival bodies of literature. These literatures are in fact compliments, with much empirical work combining both approaches in a productive manner. The point engaging the literature in this way is to question the presumption that interests should remain the most popular conceptual tool for political science explanation. This is a puzzle when one considers that interests are always formed within, and are causally affected by, both institutional environments and the ideas that they enshrine.","info":"Mark M. Blyth (Primary) / POLS 2175 S01 / CRN: 16718","_id":"BJeukR3HaoD6vD1Q"}
{"title":"Pragmatism, Religion, and Politics","teaser":"Pragmatism is a distinctive American school of thought that sees the goal of philosophy not as the apprehension of timeless truths but as a practical project of bettering individual lives and society. Pragmatists such as William James and John Dewey were devoted to deepening America's commitment to democracy. Both saw an important place for an unconventional sort of religion in democratic life. This course explores the pragmatist thought of James, Dewey, and others, looking especially at their views on religion and politics. We also will explore the influence of pragmatism on Barack Obama. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors and seniors.","info":"Stephen S. Bush (Primary) / RELS 1830A S01 / CRN: 15827","_id":"BS0qhz6BkjzQ9Ti0"}
{"title":"Molecular Mechanisms of Disease","teaser":"This course is designed for graduate students and focuses on the underlying causes of human disease. Students should have a solid background in the life sciences with an understanding of the fundamental principles of molecular biology, genetics, biochemistry and cell biology. A discussion of cystic fibrosis, using this disease to explore basic principles of molecular biology, genetics, physiology and pathology. Then the course centers on the genetic and environmental basis of disease and carcinogenesis. Will lecture individual student presentations and experimental planning exercises. Emphasis will be placed on the development of presentation skills and research design. Undergraduates require instructor permission.","info":"Thomas Bartnikas (Primary) / BIOL 2860 S01 / CRN: 14732","_id":"BSpayusAixcrYIZF"}
{"title":"Jane Austen and Her Predecessors: The Other History of the Novel","teaser":"This course focuses on the novels of Jane Austen — from Sense and Sensibility to Persuasion. The course first establishes some familiarity with the earlier women writers of narrative fiction, in order to gain a deeper understanding of the development of the novel and of Austen's place in that rich tradition. Additional readings include work by Aphra Behn, Eliza Haywood, Charlotte Lennox, Elizabeth Inchbald, and Mary Wollstonecraft.","info":"Melinda Alliker Rabb (Primary) / ENGL 1510A S01 / CRN: 15477","_id":"BUgnKeiLkHJTkvpt"}
{"title":"Essentials of Data Analysis","teaser":"This course covers the basic concepts of statistics and the statistical methods commonly used in the social sciences and public health with an emphasis on applications to real data. The first half of the course introduces descriptive statistics and the inferential statistical methods of confidence intervals and significance tests. The second half introduces bivariate and multivariate methods, emphasizing contingency table analysis, regression, and analysis of variance. This is designed to be a first course in Statistics. The course is intended for Public Health or Statistics concentrators. Others can register with instructor's permission. There are no prerequisites.","info":"Royi Gutman (Primary) / PHP 1501 L01 / CRN: 16527","_id":"BXPbSjwLUnfYbyzp"}
{"title":"Departmental Colloquia","teaser":"No description available. Open to graduate students only.","info":"CHEM 2870 C01 / CRN: 14913","_id":"Bd1c5cjgGlFeuUpQ"}
{"title":"Ancient Christianity and the Sensing Body","teaser":"Bodily experience and sensory engagement became increasingly important for Christians during their first six centuries. This seminar examines how and why the body and its senses gained worth for ancient Christians as instruments for gaining knowledge of God. Prerequisites: RELS 0110, 0400 or 0410. WRIT","info":"Susan Ashbrook Harvey (Primary) / RELS 1300 S01 / CRN: 16001","_id":"BetC7C1mnIfwGTKw"}
{"title":"The Campus on Fire:  American Colleges and Universities in the 1960's (EDUC 0400)","teaser":"Interested students must register for EDUC 0400 (CRN 14625).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"HIST 0940B S01 / CRN: 16350","_id":"BhuBHQLTIfusjOA6"}
{"title":"The Examined Self: Lives of the Soul","teaser":"The literature of spiritual awakening and struggle in fiction, autobiography, and poetry in America and Britain, and over a long historical span. Readings will include travel and religious conversion, slave narrative, lyric poems, and novels like \"Huckleberry Finn\" and Kerouac's \"On the Road.\" There is a transatlantic emphasis on movement and emigration. It attends to close readings of literary works staging the possibilities of redemption and captivity shape personal and collective quest, and pays particular attention to spiritual autobiography as a literary form. Limited to 30 students.","info":"Philip Gould (Primary) / ENGL 0500P S01 / CRN: 15469","_id":"BjbK5JUKj01TPZFq"}
{"title":"Uncanny Tales: Narratives of Repetition and Interruption","teaser":"What makes stories creepy? Close readings of short narratives with special attention to how formal and thematic elements interact to produce the effects of uncertainty, anxiety and incoherence peculiar to \"the uncanny.\" Topics include: the representation of the self in images of the arts; the representation of speech; instabilities of identity and spatial and temporal boundaries; doubles, monsters, automata and hybrids. Texts selected from: Walpole, Shelley, Hoffmann, Kleist, Poe, Dostoyevsky, Freud, Wilde, Cortazar, Kafka, Lovecraft.","info":"Susan Bernstein (Primary) / COLT 0810M S01 / CRN: 16746","_id":"ByMrIe8XYGcSwCQB"}
{"title":"L'Idée de l'empire dans l'imaginaire français","teaser":"From the early nineteenth century to the 1931 Colonial Exposition in Paris and the Algerian Revolution, ideas and debates about slavery, race, and colonialism informed the ways in which French writers and intellectuals thought about empire and its relationship to national identity. This course examines how these debates took shape through contrasting imaginative conceptions of empire from the 1800s until the 1960s, when France lost most of her colonies. How did visions of empire contribute to the formation of French colonial identity, and what kind of purchase do these ideas have on contemporary French cultural and political life? In French.","info":"Justin Izzo (Primary) / FREN 0750F S01 / CRN: 16163","_id":"Byu4hU3TK1olmtNX"}
{"title":"Polish Culture Through Film","teaser":"This course uses Polish film and media to introduce cultural issues central to the Polish nationality and identity. It is a survey of Polish cinema from before World War II to the present, in which cultural and socio-historical contexts as part of Polish and European traditions are shown and examined through the lens of the camera. The main objective of the course is to provide students with deeper knowledge of and insight into the sociological and cultural issues of Polish society, as well as their complex and multifaceted nature.\nLILE","info":"Magdalena Harrison (Primary) / SLAV 1250 S01 / CRN: 16581","_id":"C0lRX5eXDPgaZZIU"}
{"title":"Introductory Polish","teaser":"Introduction to Polish language and culture. Oral and written communication in Polish; emphasis on the literary and everyday culture of Poland. Five meetings per week, plus use of audio, video, and web materials.","info":"Magdalena Harrison (Primary) / PLSH 0100 S01 / CRN: 16262","_id":"C6fd2VSE72mA3Hc7"}
{"title":"Intermediate Swedish I","teaser":"Continuing Swedish.","info":"Ann C. Weinstein (Primary) / SWED 0300 S01 / CRN: 16613","_id":"C6sHRybhFF039xm6"}
{"title":"Technology Entrepreneurship and Commercialization I","teaser":"ENGN 2150 and the spring ENGN 2160 form a sequence that develops the skills for technology-based entrepreneurship. It teaches creation of viable high-growth-potential new ventures from emerging science and technology. It is from emerging S&T that a high percentage of new jobs are created, both by existing large companies and through the formation of new companies. You will examine S&T for new opportunities, create novel product or service concepts from these sources and determine whether these concepts truly represent new business opportunities. Pedagogy is a combination of lectures and \"experiential learning\", with work undertaken as a two-semester project. Enrollment limited to 30 graduate students in the IMEE program.","info":"Angus I. Kingon (Primary) / ENGN 2150 S01 / CRN: 16466","_id":"CALxU4rC1oC5KHUO"}
{"title":"Foundations of Mechanics","teaser":"An introduction to Newtonian mechanics that employs elementary calculus. Intended for science concentrators. Potential physics concentrators, who do not have adequate preparation for PHYS 0070, may enroll, but are urged to continue with PHYS 0160 rather than PHYS 0060. Lectures, conferences and laboratory. Six hours of attendance.  Recommended:  MATH 0090 or MATH 0100.","info":"PHYS 0050 C01 / CRN: 15218","_id":"CFyefhB8b6qICl7Z"}
{"title":"Peace, Justice and Human Rights in a Global Age","teaser":"This course explores the history of the major themes, problems and ideals of global peace, justice and human rights. We investigate the theoretical, social and political elements within these ideals and practices, spanning broad temporal and spatial genealogies of human thought. From biopolitics to geopolitics, we uncover attempts to demand food security, health care, and dignity as universal human rights. We highlight philosophies of peace and ethics, and unpack competing conceptions of “justice.” Among other topics, the political economy of global survival plays an important role in this perspective, especially within bioethics and environmental justice.","info":"Bryan V Knapp (Primary) / HIST 1979Y S01 / CRN: 16848","_id":"CRlSRP9szvInOjrr"}
{"title":"The Misuse of Scientific Information in American Life","teaser":"Many important political issues hinge on matters of science or technology. But most Americans are ill-equipped to assess these matters. As a result, we are vulnerable to spin when scientific information is distorted, cherry-picked or otherwise misused to advance financial, political or even religious goals.  This course examines ways these phenomena skew public discussion of climate change, vaccine safety, the teaching of evolution, cancer screening, GM food and a host of other issues. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS LILE WRIT","info":"Cornelia Dean (Primary) / ENVS 0070D S01 / CRN: 15671","_id":"CXKBDDXwqFIfl9NP"}
{"title":"Introductory Calculus, Part II","teaser":"A continuation of the material of MATH 0090 including further development of integration, techniques of integration, and applications. Other topics include infinite series, power series, Taylor's formula, polar and parametric equations, and an introduction to differential equations. MATH 0090 or the equivalent are recommended for all students intending to concentrate in the sciences or mathematics.","info":"MATH 0100 C01 / CRN: 15338","_id":"CZpoqsJapb9NgeX1"}
{"title":"Building a Better World: Film and Social Change","teaser":"This class explores some of today's key policy challenges: economic development and poverty alleviation, the provision of basic public services, corruption, management of natural resources, environmental protection, intergroup violent conflict, and related issues. For each topic, the course (1) presents the problem, (2) reviews potential solutions, (3) discusses failed approaches, and (4) identifies concrete successes. Examples are drawn from around the world.","info":"Keith Brown (Primary) / POLS 1490 S01 / CRN: 16642","_id":"CcFAQePfyluKCFb9"}
{"title":"Wealth: Religious Approaches","teaser":"This course will survey religious approaches to the acquisition and use of wealth:  How do religious thinkers understand the notion of ownership and private property?  Is the fact of ownership of significant possessions seen as a moral good or an impediment to the spiritual life?  Are there better or worse ways to acquire wealth?  To spend it?  The course will focus primarily on Judaism and Christianity, although examples from Islam and perhaps eastern religions will be brought in as appropriate.  Topics to be covered will include religious understandings of poverty, charity, finance, and the link between religion and capitalism. DPLL LILE WRIT","info":"Susan Ashbrook Harvey (Primary) / RELS 0025 S01 / CRN: 15990","_id":"CciLOjtrgeFE0dGZ"}
{"title":"Seminar in Theatre Arts","teaser":"Seminar designed for senior theatre arts concentrators, required during Semester VII. Topics focus on career planning and theatre arts subjects not dealt with in other courses.  Enrollment limited to seniors.","info":"Rebecca Schneider (Primary) / TAPS 1520 S01 / CRN: 16157","_id":"CdJpHft1iAXdYpPC"}
{"title":"Senior Seminar","teaser":"A research seminar focusing on the research and writing of the participants. Required of senior concentrators; open to other advanced students by permission.  WRIT","info":"GNSS 1990 S01 / CRN: 15167","_id":"CdvQXlMWEkt2ErB7"}
{"title":"Advanced Inorganic Chemistry","teaser":"Covers the physical and chemical properties of transition metal compounds as well as current research topics in inorganic chemistry. Laboratory is designed for the practice of modern inorganic chemistry through the synthesis and spectroscopic characterization of air-sensitive transition metal compounds. Prerequisite: CHEM  0500.","info":"Eric Victor (Primary) / CHEM 1060 L01 / CRN: 14830","_id":"Ce7pat4zL6WDyQEb"}
{"title":"Cross-Cultural Approaches to Death and Dying","teaser":"Despite the universality of death, human responses are incredibly varied. This course situates biological, medical, and psychological conceptions of death and dying in conversation with the religious and ethical perspectives that have also informed human responses to death and dying in cultural contexts. This course—team-taught by a psychologist, a scholar of religion, and two end-of-life care physicians—facilitates a more informed understanding of death-related cultural practices and a more skilled response to death-related decisions arising in the practice of medicine and in life. Limited to 20 students in Medical Humanities and graduate Humanities fields. Honors undergraduates and PLMEs may enroll with permission.\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Willoughby B. Britton (Primary) / HMAN 1971E S01 / CRN: 16669","_id":"Cf36EJ6rwcuDVEJQ"}
{"title":"American Studies: Professional Issues in American Studies","teaser":"Examines the methodological and theoretical underpinnings of current and past American studies scholarship. Enrollment limited to graduate students with preference given to American Studies graduate students. S/NC","info":"Leticia Alvarado (Primary) / AMST 2520 S01 / CRN: 15014","_id":"CjmckLPaFujR3WIR"}
{"title":"Mechanics of Solids and Structures","teaser":"Mechanical behavior of materials and analysis of stress and deformation in engineering structures and continuous media. Topics include concepts of stress and strain; the elastic, plastic, and time-dependent response of materials; principles of structural analysis and application to simple bar structures, beam theory, instability and buckling, torsion of shafts; general three-dimensional states of stress; Mohr's circle; stress concentrations. Lectures, recitations, and laboratory. Prerequisite: ENGN 0030.","info":"Christian Franck (Primary) / ENGN 0310 C01 / CRN: 16427","_id":"CkRcJffzzGakRkwt"}
{"title":"First-Year Arabic","teaser":"Builds basic listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills, introducing the Arabic language in its cultural environment. Six contact hours per week, with an emphasis on grammar and communication, plus written, audio, and video assignments outside of class. This is the first half of a year-long course whose first semester grade is normally a temporary one. Neither semester may be elected independently without special written permission. The final grade at the end of the course work in ARAB 0200 covers the entire year and is recorded as the final grade for both semesters. If course is full, please sign the wait list in Room 205, 195 Angell Street.  Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"Mirena Christoff (Primary) / ARAB 0100 S01 / CRN: 14693","_id":"CvalGp9kCPQBjoJo"}
{"title":"Introduction to Modelling","teaser":"This course provides an introduction to the mathematical modeling of selected biological, chemical, engineering, and physical processes. The goal is to illustrate the typical way in which applied mathematicians approach practical applications, from understanding the underlying problem, creating a model, analyzing the model using mathematical techniques, and interpreting the findings in terms of the original problem. Single-variable calculus is the only requirement; all other techniques from differential equations, linear algebra, and numerical methods, to probability and statistics will be introduced in class.\n Prerequisites:  Math 0100 or equivalent.","info":"John A. Gemmer (Primary) / APMA 0200 S01 / CRN: 16661","_id":"D04QYR9Fx5edVIRN"}
{"title":"Algebraic Geometry","teaser":"Complex manifolds and algebraic varieties, sheaves and cohomology, vector bundles, Hodge theory, Kähler manifolds, vanishing theorems, the Kodaira embedding theorem, the Riemann-Roch theorem, and introduction to deformation theory.","info":"Alexander Braverman (Primary) / MATH 2050 S01 / CRN: 15386","_id":"DEaqOVmWFWztqDSf"}
{"title":"Neuroaesthetics and Reading","teaser":"Analysis of the theories of art, reading, and aesthetic experience proposed by neuroscience and cognitive science in light of traditional aesthetics and contemporary literary theory.  Enrollment limited to 20.  Prerequisite: At least one course on neuroscience or cognitive science and one 1000-level literature course.  Instructor permission required.","info":"Paul B. Armstrong (Primary) / ENGL 1900Z S01 / CRN: 15503","_id":"DEzUTSQUCDrgJ21p"}
{"title":"Cultures of Vision in 19th-Century America","teaser":"This course investigates the dynamic power of vision and the visual in nineteenth-century American cultural contexts.  We will especially consider how technological advancements in the manufacturing of images and the privileging of sight influenced a host of American literary genres and thereby impacted broader concerns involving the formation of U.S. social and political cultures.  To this end, we will examine the role of eyewitness observation, the pseudoscience of physiognomy, and scenes of artistic and sartorial spectacularity in travel narratives, novels, children's textbooks, and abolitionist propaganda.","info":"Radiclani Clytus (Primary) / ENGL 0510X S01 / CRN: 15471","_id":"DR3kiV6IE725fJbH"}
{"title":"Congressional Leadership, Parties and Public Policy","teaser":"Focuses on the Congressional leadership, parties in Congress and their impact on political interactions, and public policy. The course will examine the relationship between the leadership in the Congress and the powerful elements in the House and Senate such as committee chairmen and the party caucuses as well as the media and lobbyists.  Emphasis is on the decades long trend toward greater political polarization and its impact on the ability of the institution to respond effectively to address critical national priorities such as the federal debt, health reform immigration, nuclear proliferation and global warming.  Enrollment limited to 20 juniors, seniors and graduate students.","info":"Richard A. Arenberg (Primary) / PLCY 1701H S01 / CRN: 16628","_id":"DSYVaNk4IAKlG0hD"}
{"title":"Campaigns and Elections","teaser":"This course is designed to survey both historical and contemporary elections at both the congressional level, emphasizing the 2012 elections. Topics include campaigns, parties, candidates, voting behavior, public opinion, and the media.","info":"Richard A. Arenberg (Primary) / POLS 1120 S01 / CRN: 16564","_id":"DX5I1NsDmKODHGAY"}
{"title":"Ethnography and Literature: Representations of \"Woman, Native, Other\"","teaser":"This interdisciplinary graduate seminar addresses the cultural construction of subaltern groups under the signs of \"woman\", \"native\" and \"other\". As part of critical endeavor, the seminar will raise questions about \"truth\" genres, the interpretive anthropological project of \"writing culture\" and the production of a hegemonic discourses on \"woman, native, other\". Using texts and counter discourses of the subalterns, we will discuss and problematize issues of empowerment and authority as they relate to self-representations by the dis-empowered, the production of cultural fictions-auto ethnographies by such groups as political acts of self-empowerment, and to explore the possibilities for ethnographies of \"fiction\".","info":"Lina M. Fruzzetti (Primary) / ANTH 2005 S01 / CRN: 16801","_id":"DXhGVWjdqndQya6L"}
{"title":"Race, Gender, Ethics and Environmental Justice","teaser":"African Americans, Gender, Ethics and Environmental Justice examines the role of African Americans in the larger environmental history conversation.  It utilizes a gendered lens to investigate how African American interpreted their natural surroundings and contributed to the development of 20th century American environmental consciousness.  This course is reading and writing intensive. WRIT","info":"Vanessa Fabien (Primary) / AFRI 1010C S01 / CRN: 16248","_id":"DaSxz5YdtcUvE8pr"}
{"title":"Perception and Mind","teaser":"How do the mind and the brain take physical energy such as light or sound and convert it into our perception of the world? This course examines the behavioral and biological bases of human and animal perceptual systems, including vision, audition, smell, taste, and touch. Particular emphasis is placed on high-level perception and how it relates to other cognitive systems.","info":"Joo-Hyun Song (Primary) / CLPS 0500 S01 / CRN: 15756","_id":"DboQhNwpGO2JJ2PP"}
{"title":"International Law","teaser":"This introduction to public international law covers the nature of legal reasoning in international relations, the interplay of international law and international politics, and the international legal process. Examines selected substantive fields such as state responsibility, the use of force, international human rights, and the U.S. and international law.","info":"Arnulf A. Becker (Primary) / INTL 1700 S01 / CRN: 16604","_id":"DgdE8ZXXgXRprtEc"}
{"title":"Urban Sociology","teaser":"This course will review alternative theoretical perspectives on urban and regional development with an emphasis on variants of ecological and political economy approaches. Substantive topics will include metropolitan restructuring in the U.S. and abroad, growth politics and growth control, neighborhood social networks and collective action, and incorporation of immigrants and minority groups in the metropolis.","info":"John Logan (Primary) / SOC 2960C S01 / CRN: 15589","_id":"DmfFbaWwdxFtfpyC"}
{"title":"Real Function Theory","teaser":"Point set topology, Lebesgue measure and integration, Lp spaces, Hilbert space, Banach spaces, differentiability, and applications.","info":"Francesco DiPlinio (Primary) / MATH 2210 S01 / CRN: 15389","_id":"Dskwib73pSIqyPxi"}
{"title":"Game Theory","teaser":"Non-cooperative games, dominance, Nash equilibrium, refinements. Cooperative games, core, bargaining set, equilibrium in normal form games. Implementation. Repeated games.","info":"Jack A. Fanning (Primary) / ECON 2180 S01 / CRN: 16586","_id":"DupeHYl9AV9Kk9jc"}
{"title":"Comprehensive Examination Preparation","teaser":"For graduate students who have met the tuition requirement and are paying the registration fee to continue active enrollment while preparing for a preliminary examination.","info":"CSCI 2890 S01 / CRN: 14554","_id":"Dyr7wGn6kWDLHFtD"}
{"title":"Economic Development I","teaser":"This course covers issues related to labor, land, and natural resource markets in developing countries, in partial and general equilibrium settings. Topics covered include: The agricultural household model, under complete and incomplete market assumptions; household and individual labor supply, migration, self-employment, and the informal sector; rental market frictions and sharecropping arrangements; and environmental externalities (e.g., pollution, water usage, etc.), and sustainable development.","info":"Anja Sautmann (Primary) / ECON 2510 S01 / CRN: 15180","_id":"E7qdLegc7A2h4c8u"}
{"title":"The Actor's Instrument: Stage Movement for Actors and Directors","teaser":"Students will be engaged in a process of exploration that centers on the physical relationship of the actor to the physical reality of the stage including sound, props and costumes. Work with a broad spectrum of contemporary and classic movement theories/approaches to constructing performance.  Instructor permission required; interested students must come to the first class, fill out an application and participate in a sample class. Accepted students will be notified by the third class meeting. You must show up to every class meeting in order to keep your application active throughout the registration process. Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"TAPS 0930C S01 / CRN: 16122","_id":"E9wGDhb0m1Ze6fJN"}
{"title":"Advanced Hindi-Urdu","teaser":"Each student follows an independent reading list determined in consultation with the instructor. The readings may include folk tales, journalistic prose, 20th-century literature, classical Urdu poetry of the 17th to 19th centuries, or subjects in nonfiction. The class meets together three hours weekly for discussion. Each student also spends one hour weekly with the instructor. Prerequisite: HNDI 0400.","info":"Ashok K. Koul (Primary) / HNDI 1080 S01 / CRN: 14803","_id":"EA5SPl9huv6jwwOd"}
{"title":"Latin in America (LATN 2080F)","teaser":"Interested students must register for LATN 2080F (CRN 16907).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"HMAN 2970Q S01 / CRN: 16937","_id":"EG2L3KrE28HSvhbR"}
{"title":"Colonialism and Human Rights","teaser":"Are anti-colonial struggles human rights struggles? Is emancipation the objective of these struggles? Where and when do anti-colonial and human rights discourses converge and diverge? What is the role of violence in the moral, political and discursive trajectories of anti-colonialism and human rights? This course takes up these questions, starting with the reconstruction of the historical relationship between colonialism, anti-colonial struggles and the post-World War II formation of the international human rights regime. We then turn to discuss different authors who developed their anti-colonial thought and dealt with, appropriated or ignored human rights in their different conceptions of anti-colonial justice. DPLL","info":"Nicola Perugini (Primary) / MES 1999B S01 / CRN: 16238","_id":"EIKL08EdgKvxypkc"}
{"title":"Foundations for Advanced Study in the Life Sciences","teaser":"A double-credit graduate course on multidisciplinary experimental approaches to biological questions. Focusing on primary literature, lectures and discussions cover the mechanisms and regulation of basic cellular processes involving nucleic acids (synthesis, structure, maintenance and transmission) and proteins (synthesis, maturation, function) and their integration into more complex circuits (signaling, organelle biogenesis and inheritance, cell cycle control).  Required for PhD students in the MCB Graduate Program; all others must obtain instructor permission. Enrollment is limited to graduate students.","info":"Alison DeLong (Primary) / BIOL 2030 C01 / CRN: 14728","_id":"ETsfHVkYTi6PjKrf"}
{"title":"Shakespeare: The Screenplays (ENGL 0310E)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ENGL 0310E (15468).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"MCM 0901T S01 / CRN: 16331","_id":"EVexb2H6ovRrUzV6"}
{"title":"Soft Matter","teaser":"This course is a special topics graduate course on soft matter, treating polymers, liquid crystals, surfactants, and colloids. The different topics will be unified by a common approach using statistical mechanics.","info":"Thomas R. Powers (Primary) / ENGN 2912F S02 / CRN: 16512","_id":"EXhDNQzxCPmWL7Yc"}
{"title":"Latin Prose Composition","teaser":"Review of the basic tenets of Latin syntax, composition, and style. English to Latin translation exercises will shore up composition skills, as we study the stylistic traits of seven Roman authors: Cato, Caesar, Cicero, Sallust, Livy, Seneca, and Tacitus. The course will proceed chronologically according to author. Class time will be spent on translation exercises and review, as well as the identification of the stylistic and syntactic characteristics of the seven authors under study.","info":"Joseph D. Reed (Primary) / LATN 1150 S01 / CRN: 15944","_id":"EcNIBT3dOA6uP99o"}
{"title":"Selections from Middle Egyptian Hieroglyphic Texts","teaser":"Readings from the various genres of classical Egyptian literature, including stories and other literary texts, historical inscriptions, and religious compositions.  Students will be expected to translate and discuss assigned texts.  Prerequisite: EGYT 1310, 1320.","info":"James P. Allen (Primary) / EGYT 1330 S01 / CRN: 14849","_id":"EdqigOcNTOmk3cGT"}
{"title":"Fluid Mechanics","teaser":"Properties of fluids, dimensional analysis. Fluid statics, forces on submerged surfaces, kinematics. Conservation equations. Frictionless incompressible flows, Euler's equations, Bernoulli's equation: thrust, lift, and drag. Vorticity and circulation. Navier-Stokes equation, applications. Laminar and turbulent boundary layers, flow separation. Steady one-dimensional compressible flow. Sound, velocity, flow with area change, normal shocks. Lectures, laboratory. Prerequisites: ENGN 0040, APMA 0330 or equivalent.","info":"Kenneth S. Breuer (Primary) / ENGN 0810 C01 / CRN: 16492","_id":"Eg6hjbB6RTpT4O5h"}
{"title":"The Art of Literary Nonfiction","teaser":"For the advanced writer. Based on Roland Barthes' notion of the fragment, this workshop features an incremental, literary approach to writing nonfiction, in both traditional and experimental formats. In response to daily assignments, students will produce numerous short pieces and three extended \"essays,\" to be gathered into a chapbook at the end of the course. Writing sample required. Prerequisite: ENGL0930 or any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. Not open to first year students. Class list reduced to 17 after writing samples are reviewed during first week of classes. Preference given to English concentrators. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC.","info":"Catherine Imbriglio (Primary) / ENGL 1180K S01 / CRN: 15398","_id":"EhYfBU59UyP3GSx4"}
{"title":"Neural Systems","teaser":"This lecture course examines key principles that underlie the function of neural systems ranging in complexity from peripheral receptors to central mechanisms of behavioral control. Prerequisite: NEUR 0010 or the equivalent. First year students require instructor approval.","info":"Monica Linden (Primary) / NEUR 1030 C01 / CRN: 16652","_id":"Ej6hImkN777MpTTr"}
{"title":"Ishiguro, Amongst Others","teaser":"Kazuo Ishiguro is one of the most distinctive and enigmatic voices in contemporary fiction. He has few obvious precursors, and there is little consensus among literary critics about the meanings of his works. This course will try to establish principles for reading Ishiguro's works by seeking alliances for his writing in works of philosophy, literature and cinema. Such interlocutors will include Ozu, Kiarostami, Kierkegaard, Sartre, Hadžihalilovič, Dostoevsky, Pasolini.","info":"Timothy R. T. Bewes (Primary) / ENGL 0710L S01 / CRN: 15475","_id":"EjorWlhdf06iAe0F"}
{"title":"Investments I","teaser":"The function and operation of asset markets; the determinants of the prices of stocks, bonds, options, and futures; the relations between risk, return, and investment management; the capital asset pricing model, normative portfolio management, and market efficiency. Prerequisite: ECON 1110 or 1130; and ECON 1620 or 1630 or APMA 1650.","info":"Sylvia Kuo (Primary) / ECON 1710 S01 / CRN: 15171","_id":"EkwtcTgw1IqTSSQy"}
{"title":"Workshop in Economic Theory","teaser":"No description available.","info":"ECON 2970 S01 / CRN: 16575","_id":"EurWHBeeiGuw90YO"}
{"title":"Atlantic Pirates","teaser":"This seminar explores piracy in the Atlantic from the sixteenth to the early nineteenth centuries. We will examine everyday life on pirate vessels; the pirates' role in emerging colonial societies and economies; the complex links between piracy, imperialism, and nation-building; and the image of pirates as both villains and figures of legend.  Enrollment limited to 20 first year students.  FYS P","info":"Robert Douglas Cope (Primary) / HIST 0535A S01 / CRN: 14900","_id":"EwKGnUfJNnYqjeOt"}
{"title":"Introduction to Phonological Theory","teaser":"Examines some of the classic and current issues regarding sound structure in the world's languages and introduces the theoretical tools needed to solve them. After an introduction to articulatory phonetics and phonemic analysis, it focuses on phonological analysis of different languages, and discusses rule-based and constraint-based approaches to phonology.  Implications for language learning and language change are discussed. Prerequisite: CLPS 0030.","info":"Uriel Cohen Priva (Primary) / CLPS 1310 S01 / CRN: 15758","_id":"EzQ149Ny8wk1a7jM"}
{"title":"Financial Accounting","teaser":"Basic accounting theory and practice. Accounting procedures for various forms of business organizations.","info":"Robert A. D'Andrea (Primary) / ECON 0710 S01 / CRN: 15147","_id":"F1cCzPNBxWfVyhmC"}
{"title":"Contemporary Poetry in Spanish","teaser":"This course explores poetry in Spanish from the 1970s to the present, tracing new experiments with language, form, and media, drawing lines of continuity with earlier poetics, and exploring engagements with poetics elsewhere. Selections may be drawn from all parts of the Spanish-speaking world, with particular emphasis on Argentina, Peru, the Caribbean, and Spain.","info":"Michelle Clayton (Primary) / HISP 2350S S01 / CRN: 16847","_id":"F2AUbkqZLK8HTQwP"}
{"title":"Physical Theatre","teaser":"This course is open only to students of the Brown University/Trinity Rep MFA Consortium program. This course will explore various kinds of physical theatre, and ways in which the actor can be free, spontaneous and open in rehearsal and performance. Areas of exploration will include Commedia, mask and yoga.","info":"Stephen Berenson (Primary) / TAPS 2720 S01 / CRN: 11018","_id":"F5swiM0tYHq4vQbz"}
{"title":"Social Structure and Personal Development","teaser":"The relationship between one's place in the social structure and one's own personal growth. Investigates the social aspects of individual growth and change throughout the life course. Also examines social factors involved in the failure to find a meaningful place for oneself in society.","info":"Gregory C. Elliott (Primary) / SOC 1430 S01 / CRN: 15439","_id":"F68yqrsePwgVlTCm"}
{"title":"Abraham Lincoln: Historical and Cultural Perspectives","teaser":"This seminar uses the life, legacy, and myth of Abraham Lincoln to explore central themes such as the frontier in the early republic, the nature of political leadership, law and legal culture, and the emergence of sectionalism, slavery, antislavery, and Civil War.  Sources are drawn from Lincoln’s works, the writings of his contemporaries, and modern non-fiction, fiction, and film.  The course enables us to consider two larger themes: 1) the relationship between memory and history; and 2) the function of history in modern society.  The course has no prerequisites and does not presuppose special knowledge of American history.  WRIT FYS","info":"Michael Vorenberg (Primary) / HIST 0551A S01 / CRN: 15412","_id":"FBPpozunsc7IlB56"}
{"title":"Performance in a Virtual World","teaser":"A co-taught production course exploring emerging technology in the context of live performance, focusing on techniques where the body appears both on stage and on screen. What does it mean to be “live” in a virtual world, and how does that impact movement, interaction and expression? Students participate in a series of hands-on workshops that examine embodied performance using projections, motion capture, video processing, and sound design, along with various interactive and immersive techniques. The course culminates in a public performance of new works created in collaborative groups. Open to graduate and advanced undergraduate students. Permission required.","info":"Todd E. Winkler (Primary) / MUSC 2270B S01 / CRN: 16696","_id":"FCpiazVkeQLTILlx"}
{"title":"Business Engineering Fundamentals I","teaser":"The course examines core concepts in distinct areas through three modules:  (1) intellectual property and business law, (2) technical marketing and (3) finance.  All aspects of intellectual property will be treated, models on how to analyze markets will be discussed, culminating in a finance module which utilizes accounting fundamentals and models to perform financial analysis.","info":"Eric Suuberg (Primary) / ENGN 2110 S01 / CRN: 16464","_id":"FDCFVQw2Ok27AJ7E"}
{"title":"Biostatistics and Applied Data Analysis I","teaser":"The objective of the year long, two-course sequence is for students to develop the knowledge, skills and perspectives necessary to analyze data in order to answer a public health questions.  The year long sequence will focus on statistical principles as well as the applied skills necessary to answer public health questions using data, including:  data acquisition, data analysis, data interpretation and the presentation of results.  Through lectures, labs and small group discussions, this fall semester course will focus on identifying public health data sets, refining research questions, univariate and bivariate analyses and presentation of initial results. Prerequisite: understanding of basic math concepts and terms; basic functional knowledge of Stata. Enrollment limited to 50 MPH, CTR, and BSSI students. Instructor permission required.","info":"Annie Gjelsvik (Primary) / PHP 2507 L01 / CRN: 16773","_id":"FFxduZuJvAHCs6BL"}
{"title":"Graduate Readings in Early American History","teaser":"No description available.","info":"Linford Fisher (Primary) / HIST 2970W S01 / CRN: 14868","_id":"FJlIlF2dXld26DcW"}
{"title":"Faulkner","teaser":"In examining Faulkner's major works from the early stream-of-consciousness novels through the history-driven and race-inflected texts of the 30s and 40s, this course will evaluate Faulkner's practice as a writer working both in and against Southern culture, and as Modernist writing within an international context. Issues include narrative experimentation, race, class, gender, and the evolution of Faulkner's work. Students should register for ENGL 1710G S01 and may be assigned to conference sections by the instructor during the first week of class.","info":"Arnold Louis Weinstein (Primary) / ENGL 1710G S01 / CRN: 15496","_id":"FJprrzxykQhAoZSy"}
{"title":"Medicare: A Data Based Policy Examination","teaser":"This course will explore the role of Medicare as America's health insurer for the elderly and disabled through the use of real Medicare insurance claims data, examining how Medicare policy changes in financing and regulation have affected the delivery and receipt of medical services.  At the end of the course students will: 1) know the history of important Medicare policy changes; 2) be able to construct aggregated patient case mix acuity adjusted measures of provider quality using insurance claims data; 3) be able to conduct policy analyses using Medicare claims data that are sensitive to standardized coding schemes. Enrollment limited to 15 graduate students. Prerequisite: PHP 2120, 2508, or 2510. Instructor permission required.","info":"Vincent Mor (Primary) / PHP 2410E S01 / CRN: 16677","_id":"FL7nCmBfYJItavNf"}
{"title":"Structure of the Nervous System","teaser":"Combined lecture and laboratory course on the anatomy of the central nervous system. Lectures survey the circuitry of the major neural systems for sensation, movement, cognition, and emotion. Laboratory exercises (Mon. 10:30-12:30) include brain dissections, microscopy of neural tissue, and discussion of clinical cases. Prerequisites: NEUR 0010, 1020, and 1030. Sign-up sheet in Sidney Frank Hall, Room 315 beginning on the first day of registration. Instructor permission required.","info":"David M. Berson (Primary) / NEUR 1650 S01 / CRN: 15899","_id":"FONJQDqp7xLBCEAV"}
{"title":"Afro-Brazilians and the Brazilian Polity","teaser":"Explores the history and present-day conditions of Afro-Brazilians, looking specifically at the uses of Africana in contemporary Brazil, political and cultural movements among Afro-Brazilians, domestic politics and its external dimensions, and Brazilian race relations within a global comparative framework. Texts from a variety of disciplines. A reading knowledge of Portuguese is not required but students so advantaged should inform the instructor. DPLL","info":"Anani Dzidzienyo (Primary) / AFRI 1210 S01 / CRN: 16229","_id":"FPmcpyUGWPx2Datq"}
{"title":"Latin in America","teaser":"Exploration of some of the rich and extensive ‘neo-Latin’ writing from colonial Spanish America, with particular emphasis on poetry and literary prose from sixteenth-century Mexico, much of which has never been studied or translated.  Latin satires, epigrams, bucolic poems, literary epistles and dialogues will be examined in relation to their classical models and influences – and in the context of the multicultural environment in which they were produced. As well as opening a new world of Latin, this course will familiarize you with the format of some early modern books and manuscripts, and offer a unique perspective on traditional classical literature","info":"Andrew Laird (Primary) / LATN 2080F S01 / CRN: 16907","_id":"FQZLrxGTGOlueARV"}
{"title":"Tales and Talemakers of the Non-Western World","teaser":"Examines many forms of storytelling in Asia, from the Epic of Gilgamesh and the Arabian Nights Entertainments to works of history and fiction in China and Japan. The material is intended to follow the evolution of non-western narratives from mythological, historical and fictional sources in a variety of cultural contexts. Topics will include myth and ritual, the problem of epic, tales of love and the fantastic, etc. DPLL  LILE","info":"Dore J. Levy (Primary) / COLT 0810I S01 / CRN: 15066","_id":"FTWbvdGvZch1evqL"}
{"title":"Analysis of Lifetime Data","teaser":"Comprehensive overview of methods for inference from censored event time data, with emphasis on nonparametric and semiparametric approaches. Topics include nonparametric hazard estimation, semiparametric proportional hazards models, frailty models, multiple event processes, with application to biomedical and public health data. Computational approaches using statistical software are emphasized. Prerequisites: PHP 2510 and 2511, or equivalent. Open to advanced undergraduates with permission from the instructor.","info":"Zheng Zhang (Primary) / PHP 2602 S01 / CRN: 16777","_id":"FeaYjnjjj1lsqlsG"}
{"title":"God and Poetry","teaser":"Throughout recorded history, poetry has expressed a variety of religious experiences. In this seminar we will read selections from biblical psalms, the biblical book of Job, and contemporary Christian and Jewish poetry, and explore how the language of poetry can serve as a means to convey the nature of relations between humanity and God.   We will also seek to understand the underlying universal human psychological experiences reflected in the poems and how religiosity provides a framework for people to deal with those experiences.  In our discussion of the contemporary Christian and Jewish poems, we will seek to understand the attempt of the poet to write about religious experience in a secular age.  Students with a variety of cultural backgrounds and religious orientations (believers, agnostics, and atheists) are welcome. Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"David C. Jacobson (Primary) / JUDS 0820 S01 / CRN: 14677","_id":"FilwzjUNMT12oFFc"}
{"title":"Europe in the Vernacular","teaser":"Why did a few early medieval European authors write not in Latin or Arabic but in vernacular languages like Castilian, Early Middle English, Old Icelandic, or Old French? We will read primary texts by Layamon, Alfonso X, Dante, troubadours and anonymous others, and assess previous claims about the \"rise of the individual\" and various proto-nationalisms as we rewrite the story of how, why, and for whom multilingual vernacular writings came to be. Readings in modern English supplemented by medieval languages. Enrollment limited to 20 students. Not open to first-year students. Sophomores require instructor permission to register.","info":"Elizabeth Johnson Bryan (Primary) / ENGL 1360U S01 / CRN: 15476","_id":"FoWl9saBBPNuxlG1"}
{"title":"Historiography of Exact Sciences","teaser":"Introduces graduate students to the sources, problems, and methodologies of the history of astronomy and mathematics from Babylon to Kepler. Prerequisite: AWAS 0200. Open to graduate students only.","info":"John M. Steele (Primary) / ASYR 2120 S01 / CRN: 14846","_id":"FyVCQc95QKTt7D40"}
{"title":"Clinical Trials Methodology","teaser":"We will examine the modern clinical trial as a methodology for evaluating interventions related to treatment, rehabilitation, prevention and diagnosis. Topics include the history and rationale for clinical trials, ethical issues, study design, protocol development, sample size considerations, quality assurance, statistical analysis, systematic reviews and meta-analysis, and reporting of results. Extensively illustrated with examples from various fields of health care research. Recommended prerequisites: introductory epidemiology and statistics. Pre-requisites: (PHP 2120 or PHP 2150) and either PHP 2508, 2510, or 2520. Open to graduate students only.","info":"Ilana F. Gareen (Primary) / PHP 2030 S01 / CRN: 16679","_id":"FywjaMi98dmVMTtq"}
{"title":"Introduction to Coptic","teaser":"Coptic, the last stage of the ancient Egyptian language, was written with essentially Greek alphabetic characters. An introduction to Sahidic, which is perhaps the best represented of the Coptic dialects. Sahidic grammar is explained, and some texts, mainly of a biblical and patristic nature, are read. Open to undergraduates with the consent of the instructor. No prerequisites, but a knowledge of Middle Egyptian or Greek would be helpful.","info":"Leo Depuydt (Primary) / EGYT 2210 S01 / CRN: 14850","_id":"G4Y3fHPjZNiiW5Nk"}
{"title":"Governing Sex: Citizenship, Violence, Media","teaser":"From the photographs of Abu Ghraib, to Tyler Clementi's suicide, and the rise of “revenge porn,” contemporary media have been central to understanding the ways in which sexuality, law, and citizenship are negotiated in our present moment. This course will take these moments of public crisis as instances from which to understand the politics of belonging within the framework of the contemporary nation-state. We will examine the inter-related problematics of sexuality as a site of state governance, and the anxieties about sexual violence as national crises. Assigned readings will include queer of color critique, critical race theory, feminism, and postcolonialism.","info":"MCM 0901Q F01 / CRN: 15480","_id":"G4kyVyhKm0YP5ysp"}
{"title":"Practical Data Analysis","teaser":"Covers practical skills required for successful analysis of scientific data including statistical programming, data management, exploratory data analysis, simulation and model building and checking. Tools will be developed through a series of case studies based on different types of data requiring a variety of statistical methods. Modern regression techniques such as cross-validation, bootstrapping, splines and bias-variance tradeoff will be emphasized. Students should be familiar with statistical inference as well as regression analysis. The course will use the R programming language.","info":"Christopher H. Schmid (Primary) / PHP 2550 S01 / CRN: 16915","_id":"G7Z34KpBb5PWi7D3"}
{"title":"Quantum Theory of Fields II","teaser":"No description available. Instructor permission required.","info":"PHYS 2320 S01 / CRN: 15255","_id":"GLMtG7TLOeDWMcyc"}
{"title":"Electroacoustic Improv Ensemble","teaser":"An ensemble devoted to free improvisation with new media. Experimental approaches to sound and focused listening techniques are explored with acoustic instruments, live electronics, real-time video, together with networked improvisation, and more. Enrollment limited to 12 students; by audition.","info":"Joseph W. Rovan (Primary) / MUSC 0220 S01 / CRN: 16081","_id":"GNtwtFyEsn8V3uBE"}
{"title":"Directing: The Director's Vision","teaser":"This course is open only to students of the MFA Consortium program. Under close supervision, students will direct projects at the Consortium. Each student will be responsible for the creation of either a new or an established script. Students will meet regularly with the faculty to discuss process and progress.","info":"Stephen Berenson (Primary) / TAPS 2630 S01 / CRN: 11015","_id":"GPp1eTiOI3nBVcQ1"}
{"title":"Technologies of/and the Body: Mediated Visions","teaser":"The relationship between body and machinery, technology and biology is often thought in terms of the mechanical doll, the animated robot and other hybrid figures. Science fiction films for example offer double visions of the gendered body: women are masters/slaves of the technology and still symbolic bodies of biological surviving of the human species. We will explore mediated visions in films and other media of different kinds spanning a bridge between SciFi-films and performance art. We will also study theoretical texts (Donna Haraway et al.) on the problem of the merging of technology and body.","info":"GNSS 1720 S01 / CRN: 16770","_id":"GQzfKbilF8G3dyYc"}
{"title":"Behavioral and Social Science Theory for Health Promotion","teaser":"This course will help students become familiar with behavioral and social science theories commonly used for planning disease prevention/health promotion interventions. In addition to review of specific theories, topics to be discussed include: how theories are developed and tested; challenges and potential pitfalls in using theory for intervention planning; and creation of causal diagrams based on concepts from theories. Undergraduates need permission of instructor; priority will be for Community Health concentrators. Enrollment limited to 25.","info":"David M. Williams (Primary) / PHP 2340 S01 / CRN: 15893","_id":"GceX184YKtsM8HEU"}
{"title":"Intensive Elementary Italian","teaser":"Covers the same material presented in Italian 100-200. One semester equivalent to the standard two-semester sequence. Daily meetings plus audio and video assignments.","info":"Cristina Abbona-Sneider (Primary) / ITAL 0110 S01 / CRN: 15311","_id":"GrzuLPBNExEpcuNf"}
{"title":"Experiential Learning Industry, ELI","teaser":"Experiential Learning in Industry is restricted to biomedical engineering (BME) Sc.M. and biotechnology (Biotech) Sc.M. students, permission also required. The course is an extended in-depth learning experience in an industry environment related to the discipline of BME and Biotech. Industry environments include; medical device, pharmaceutical or biotechnology and industries that provide BME and Biotech relevant services to the aforementioned companies including patent law, licensing, regulatory and consulting. Students will pursue Experiential Learning in Industry during one summer plus one semester or during two semesters for which they will receive credit towards their degree. This course is restricted to BME and Biotech Masters students only. Students must have successfully completed the first year of the BME Masters Program. Slots are limited so permission is required.","info":"Beth Anne Zielinski-Habershaw (Primary) / BIOL 2180 S01 / CRN: 14804","_id":"GvkLCgdcDXzDUnJq"}
{"title":"Modern European Women + Gender History","teaser":"This course deals with the history of European women and gender from the Enlightenment to the present. It will focus on large historical themes and questions, especially shifting constructions of femininity and masculinity. It will begin with an analysis of eighteenth-century philosophies regarding women and gender, and it will move to examinations of specific topics such as industrialization, Victorian femininity, the suffrage movements, gender and the Great War, interwar sexuality, fascism, gender and the Second World War, and the sexual revolution.","info":"Kelly R. Colvin (Primary) / HIST 1235A S01 / CRN: 16713","_id":"GydDwG549bqUTTuh"}
{"title":"Topics in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology","teaser":"Current literature in ecology, behavior, and evolutionary biology is discussed in seminar format. Topics and instructors change each semester. Representative topics have included: structuring of communities, biomechanics, coevolution, quantitative genetics, life history strategies, and units of selection. Expected: courses in advanced ecology and genetics.","info":"David M. Rand (Primary) / BIOL 2430 S01 / CRN: 14750","_id":"H0E3TNiquCSeleeX"}
{"title":"Voice: Verse Text","teaser":"This course is open only to students of the MFA Consortium program. It will include advanced vocal work and an introduction to singing in performance. Rhythm and rhyme will be explored in relation to lyrics and verse.","info":"Stephen Berenson (Primary) / TAPS 2610 S01 / CRN: 11013","_id":"H2nZ30jUWnws6aJH"}
{"title":"Introduction to Greek Literature","teaser":"Introduction to Greek literature through intensive reading. Prerequisite: GREK 0200, GREK 0110, or the equivalent. We will work on grammar skills while reading extensively in the Histories of Herodotus, who is not only the \"father of history\" but also a great (and delightful) artist in prose.","info":"GREK 0300 S01 / CRN: 15923","_id":"H94MFSfi83kIHyGZ"}
{"title":"Modern African Literature ","teaser":"This course considers themes, antecedents, and contexts of modern African literature and related forms. Our readings will include fiction in English or in translation, traditional oral forms like panegyric and festival poetry, and some films. We will examine how these diverse materials explore the interplay of ethnicity, nationality, and race. We will also address the issue of \"tradition\" in contexts where nationalisms of various stripes are becoming stronger, even as the world becomes more interconnected through trade, immigration, and digital technology. Authors include Achebe, Cole, Dangarembga, Farah, Gordimer, Ngugi, Salih, Soyinka, Wicomb. Films by Blomkamp, Loreau, Sembène. DPLL","info":"Olakunle George (Primary) / ENGL 1710J S01 / CRN: 15511","_id":"HAdWWFSI4syNCMnc"}
{"title":"Introduction to Human Development and Education","teaser":"Introduces the study of human development and education from infancy through young adulthood. Provides a broad overview of scientific understanding of how children develop and how research is generated in the field. Major topics include biological foundations, mind, cognition, language, emotion, social skills, and moral understanding based on developmental theories and empirical research. The educational implications of research on human development are discussed.","info":"Mona M. K. Abo-Zena (Primary) / EDUC 0800 S01 / CRN: 14632","_id":"HBXuqno28EXAWTFy"}
{"title":"Complex Function Theory","teaser":"Introduction to the theory of analytic functions of one complex variable. Content varies somewhat from year to year, but always includes the study of power series, complex line integrals, analytic continuation, conformal mapping, and an introduction to Riemann surfaces.","info":"Serguei R. Treil (Primary) / MATH 2250 S01 / CRN: 15388","_id":"HLIssTlOBjB9TWqF"}
{"title":"Movement: Form, Center and Balance","teaser":"This course is open only to students of the Brown University/Trinity Rep MFA Consortium program. It will develop a physical vocabulary through floor work, choreographed combinations and movement improvisation, helping the actor develop an understanding of space, strength of movement, and physical life onstage.","info":"Stephen Berenson (Primary) / TAPS 2520 S01 / CRN: 11010","_id":"HNjDNb8f4J9LdGBP"}
{"title":"Meditation, Mindfulness and Health","teaser":"This course provides an overview on the relation of meditation and mindfulness (the ability to attend in a nonjudgmental way to one’s own physical and mental processes during ordinary, everyday tasks) with various health outcomes and disease risk factors such as depression, anxiety, pain management, diet, substance use, and cardiovascular disease. Mechanisms by which mindfulness may influence health will be addressed. The course will assess studies in the field for methodological rigor, and students will be taught strengths and weaknesses of current research. Students will be taught various mindfulness practices including direct experience with mindfulness meditation.","info":"Eric B. Loucks (Primary) / PHP 1880 S01 / CRN: 15188","_id":"HSRGgQXajJ772tzP"}
{"title":"Communicating Science: Animating Science","teaser":"Taught by RISD/Brown professors with the Science Ctr and Creative Mind Initiative, this course explores the pedagogy of using visual media to convey scientific concepts. The goal is to assess the quality of existing material and design new material that fill an educational need and makes science engaging and accessible. Lectures, labs, discussions, critiques and speakers. Teams collaborate on a series of short exercises leading to the creation of  videos/animations explaining scientific concepts. Projects evaluated on accuracy, clarity of explanation, educational value, viewer engagement and creativity. Not for concentration credit in Biological Sciences programs. Enrollment limited to 12; instructor permission.","info":"John J. Stein (Primary) / BIOL 0140C S01 / CRN: 14682","_id":"HTYGtFhLapRSGVB4"}
{"title":"The Enchanted World: Magic, Angels, and Demons in Early Modern Europe","teaser":"European fascination with the unseen world reached its highpoint alongside the Renaissance, Reformation, Scientific Revolution,and Enlightenment. Between 1500 and 1800, theologians, natural philosopher, princes, and peasants devoted enormous energy to understanding, communicating with, and eliminating a host of ethereal creatures, including ghosts, angels, demons, vampires, nature spirits, and witches. Some also sought to access the praeternatural powers that these creatures seemed to command. This course explores the intellectual, social, political, and religious origins of the interest in this unseen world, the structures Europeans created to grapple with it, as well as the factors that ultimately led to its demise. P","info":"Tara E. Nummedal (Primary) / HIST 1964B S01 / CRN: 14937","_id":"HVBNtoEYEndFYYZh"}
{"title":"Dance History: The 20th Century","teaser":"An exploration of the major figures and trends in modern dance. While the main focus of the course is on American Dance, attention is given to earlier European and other dance traditions that have contribited to the American dance heritage. May be of particular interest Americanists, art historians, dancers, and theatre majors.","info":"Julie A. Strandberg (Primary) / TAPS 1330 S01 / CRN: 16118","_id":"HhL02VWwgtmOIv92"}
{"title":"Persuasive Communication","teaser":"Provides an introduction to public speaking, and helps students develop confidence in public speaking through the presentation of persuasive speeches. Primarily for seniors.  Limited to 18. Instructor's permission required. No permission will be given during pre-registration; interested students should sign up well in advance on the TAPS 0220 waitlist (application form is at http://brown.edu/go/TAPS0220) and attend the first day of class. Attendance is mandatory. The application/waitlist process does not apply to students registering for the Summer term through the Office of Continuing Education.","info":"Barbara I. Tannenbaum (Primary) / TAPS 0220 S01 / CRN: 16129","_id":"Hiu4fgZxiVKcZW1u"}
{"title":"Scénographies du 20ème siècle","teaser":"In this course we will read a selection of plays by notable 20th century French and Francophone writers, and consider how the dramatic form organizes and complicates questions of representation, subjectivity, body, politics and voice. Authors include Sartre, Camus, Genet, Beckett, Césaire, Koltès, Duras, Sarraute, Ndiaye, Redonnet. Secondary readings by Adorno, Deleuze, Kristeva amongst others. Taught in French.","info":"Thangam Ravindranathan (Primary) / FREN 1120F S01 / CRN: 16169","_id":"HjqJ76irZtScX4kG"}
{"title":"Applied Artificial Intelligence","teaser":"Practical approaches to designing intelligent systems. Topics include search and optimization, uncertainty, learning, and decision making. Application areas include natural language processing, machine vision, machine learning, and robotics. Prerequisites: CSCI 0160, CSCI 0180 or CSCI 0190; and either CSCI 0220 or one of CSCI 0450 or CSCI 1450.","info":"Stefanie A. Tellex (Primary) / CSCI 1410 S01 / CRN: 16293","_id":"HkOFCVpHGN2Symxq"}
{"title":"Henry James Goes to the Movies","teaser":"This course will focus on some of the novels and stories by James that have been made more than once into films or tv shows - Washington Square, The Turn of the Screw, The Portrait of a Lady, and The Golden Bowl - and study the narrative and visual choices as interpretations of James's texts. Critical readings on the art of fiction and the art of film will also be included. Enrollment limited to 20. WRIT","info":"Beverly Haviland (Primary) / AMST 1904B S01 / CRN: 15013","_id":"HlFBuaMcKiv2Y68a"}
{"title":"Early and Contemporary Writers of Spanish America","teaser":"An introduction to major authors, movements, and themes of Spanish American literature from the Discovery to the present. This course also aims to develop students' oral and written expression in Spanish. Students are expected to engage in close reading and discussion of texts, as well as to revise their papers. Prerequisite: HISP 0600, or AP score =5, or SAT II (Literature) score of 750 or above, or Brown placement score of 651 or above. WRIT DPLL LILE","info":"HISP 0730 S01 / CRN: 16665","_id":"HlVYobesfyhtsc7g"}
{"title":"Introduction to Fiction","teaser":"A workshop for first year students, introducing them to the art of writing fiction. This course is reading and writing intensive. Enrollment limited to 17. S/NC required. FYS  WRIT\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"LITR 0100A S01 / CRN: 15662","_id":"HqreXF1HErImT61w"}
{"title":"Engineering Material Culture: An Introduction to Archaeological Science","teaser":"Unlikely bedfellows? No way! This course demonstrates how well archaeology (the humanities) and engineering (the hard sciences) can do business together. An introduction to the world of archaeological science, presented from the dual perspectives of material culture studies and materials science. Students will be introduced to a range of methodologies, instrumentation, and interpretive approaches through a combination of hands-on laboratory work, guest lectures, and interdisciplinary group research. Student must have already completed at least two university courses in archaeology, engineering, or any related discipline. Enrollment is limited to 20. Priority will be given to admitting a proportional number of students from archaeology, engineering and related fields.","info":"ARCH 1860 S01 / CRN: 16282","_id":"Hr3FrcpSjdBhspJA"}
{"title":"Political Economy of Industrial Development","teaser":"Will explore the mechanisms by which assets, institutions, and governance interact to shape patterns of industrial development across the world.  The seminar has four main objectives: 1) to review competing schools of thought on why some countries have attained the cutting edge of industrial development and upgrading while others have not, 2) to examine the relationship between evolving structures of industrial production and evolving conditions of politics in particular national settings, 3) to consider how conditions of globalization affect the developmental challenge for industrializing nations, and 4) to consider how new concerns surrounding environmental sustainability affect the process of industrialization.","info":"Edward S. Steinfeld (Primary) / POLS 2270 S01 / CRN: 15777","_id":"HuTcnm26VSNXLjBz"}
{"title":"Seminar in Pedagogy and Composition Theory","teaser":"An experimental and exploratory investigation into writing as a preparation for teaching college-level writing. Reviews the history of writing about writing, from Plato to current discussions on composition theory. Against this background, examines various processes of reading and writing. Emphasizes the practice of writing, including syllabus design. Priority given to students in the English Ph.D. program. Undergraduates admitted only with permission of instructor.","info":"Jonathan Readey (Primary) / ENGL 2950 S01 / CRN: 15303","_id":"HvMQz1MIYdpEj8oO"}
{"title":"History of Capitalism","teaser":"Capitalism didn't just spring from the brain of Adam Smith. Its logic is not encoded on human DNA, and its practices are not the inevitable outcome of supply and demand. So how did capitalism become the dominant economic system of the modern world?  History can provide an answer by exploring the interaction of culture and politics, technology and enterprise, and opportunity and exploitation from the era of the Atlantic Slave Trade to the 2008 Financial Crisis. HIST 0150 courses introduce students to methods of historical analysis, interpretation, and argument. This class presumes no economics background, nor previous history courses.","info":"Seth E. Rockman (Primary) / HIST 0150A S01 / CRN: 15061","_id":"HwuoLYFzUduLZ8M9"}
{"title":"Topics in Computer Systems Security","teaser":"This course explores advanced topics and highlights current research in computer security from a systems perspective. Topics include vulnerabilities and defenses for automotive, computing, medical, and industrial control devices, intrusion detection, botnets, secure network protocols, web spam, tracking of web users, JavaScript sandboxing, attacks and defenses for web applications, and security and privacy issues in cloud computing. Research papers and industry reports will be presented and discussed. Also, hands-on experiments and system demonstrations will be performed. CSCI 1660 or equivalent background is essential. Enrollment limited to 12. Instructor permission required.","info":"Roberto Tamassia (Primary) / CSCI 2951E S01 / CRN: 16544","_id":"I0oVoXk4zgdbsQxt"}
{"title":"Global Tectonics","teaser":"Plate tectonic theory and the evolution of continents and the seafloor. Emphasis on the structure and tectonics of western U.S. considering geological, geophysical, and geochemical constraints as well as direct geodetic observations of plate motions from GPS measurements. Prerequisite: GEOL 0220 and 0230. Three or more of GEOL 0220, 0230, 1240, 1410, 1420, 1450 and 1610 are recommended.","info":"Alberto Saal (Primary) / GEOL 1560 S01 / CRN: 16638","_id":"I2pbxnwb8MkepDrm"}
{"title":"Statistics II for Public Policy Analysis","teaser":"The course introduces students to the use of multiple regression analysis and program evaluation for analyzing data in the social sciences. We will study a variety of designs for empirical public policy analysis, from random assignment to quasi-experimental evaluation methods, and students will have the opportunity to analyze actual datasets. We will also study the strengths and weaknesses of alternative evaluation strategies.","info":"PLCY 2035 S01 / CRN: 15193","_id":"I7zvHfW3IG1zzxGA"}
{"title":"So You Want to Change the World?","teaser":"Examines from an anthropological perspective efforts to address global poverty that are typically labeled as \"development.\" The enterprise of development is considered critically, both with regard to the intentions and purposes that underlie the actions of wealthy countries, donor organizations, and expatriate development workers and with regard to the outcomes for the people who are the intended beneficiaries. Privileging the prespectives of ordinary people in developing countries, but also looking carefully at the institutions involved in development, the course relies heavily on ethnographic case studies that will draw students into the complexity of one of the greatest contemporary global problems: social inequality. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS DPLL LILE","info":"ANTH 0066J S01 / CRN: 16880","_id":"IAlCrKppyLUXs34s"}
{"title":"Introduction to Italian Studies","teaser":"This seminar, a requirement for graduate students in Italian Studies, has three objectives: 1) to provide a panoramic view of the current research in the interdisciplinary field of Italian studies (literature, history, arts and media); 2) to provide a picture of the professional state of the field, within the framework of more global developments in academia and the job markets; 3) to provide useful information about the resources and the new tools and techniques for research available to students at Brown and elsewhere (special collections in the Brown libraries, digital resources such as data bases, electronic journals, web projects, etc.).","info":"Suzanne Stewart-Steinberg (Primary) / ITAL 2100 S01 / CRN: 15234","_id":"IElzi76un4ikyQWR"}
{"title":"Movement: The Alexander Technique","teaser":"This course is open only to students of the MFA Consortium program. This class will provide a step-by-step understanding and application of The Alexander Technique, which helps to develop body alignment, range of motion, and inner stillness.","info":"Stephen Berenson (Primary) / TAPS 2620 S01 / CRN: 11014","_id":"IJQD3Ziln9Md53fb"}
{"title":"TA Apprenticeship: Half Credit","teaser":"Being an undergraduate TA is a learning experience: one not only gets a deeper understanding of the course material, but gains management and social skills that are invaluable for one's future. Students taking this course must first be selected as an undergraduate TA for a Computer Science course, a course the student has taken and done well in. Students will work with the course's instructor on a variety of course-related topics, including preparation of material and development of assignments. Whether CSCI 0082 or its full-credit version (CSCI 0081) is taken is up to the professor of the course being TA'd. Instructor permission required.","info":"Thomas W. Doeppner Jr. (Primary) / CSCI 0082 S01 / CRN: 16548","_id":"IJvCPdgwgBFYEd7t"}
{"title":"3D Shape Perception","teaser":"Our ability to move in the environment, recognize and grasp objects, depends enormously on the capacity that the brain has in organizing the visual stimulation in the perceived 3D layout. 3D objects in the world project on the human retina flat images. How does the brain re- transform these flat images into a 3D representation? Enrollment limited to 40.","info":"Fulvio Domini (Primary) / CLPS 1530 S01 / CRN: 15749","_id":"INGyY2xjfYyxXzBV"}
{"title":"International Health: Anthropological Perspectives","teaser":"This upper-level medical anthropology course focuses on the social and cultural complexity of health problems in developing nations, employing anthropological approaches to public health. International health issues such as HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy, reproductive health, violence, and mental illness will be examined. The historical, political and socio-cultural dimensions of international health problems will be explored through reading ethnographic case studies. WRIT DPLL LILE","info":"Katherine A. Mason (Primary) / ANTH 1310 S01 / CRN: 16189","_id":"INYUc1BsnpLReD6B"}
{"title":"Writing Science","teaser":"This seminar focuses on communicating scientific and technical information to a lay audience in ways that engage and inform.  The focus is on writing about new findings, scientific disputes and policy debates, along with producing profiles, feature articles, op-eds and blog posts. Students who complete this seminar will learn how to turn a collection of facts into a story, ways of explaining complex topics in simple terms, and how to differentiate between crucial technical details and clutter. Proficiency in English is assumed. Permission from the instructor is required.  Preference will be given to seniors and graduate students. Enrollment limited to 15. WRIT","info":"Cornelia Dean (Primary) / ENGN 1931E S01 / CRN: 16708","_id":"IT9ZfVnAUlFocDfg"}
{"title":"Beginning Modern Dance","teaser":"Introduction to the art of movement. Focuses on building a common vocabulary based on ballet, vernacular forms, improvisation, Laban movement analysis, American modern dance, and the body therapies. Individual work is explored. One and one-half hours of class, four days a week.  Enrollment limited to 40. S/NC.","info":"Julie A. Strandberg (Primary) / TAPS 0310 S01 / CRN: 16114","_id":"ITwzXTCZQO0RoarU"}
{"title":"Data Analysis Big and Small","teaser":"A first course in statistics emphasizing a principled approach to data analysis through the use of probabilistic simulations: The focus is on the fundamental concepts of statistical inference and probability, and their application in modern data analysis. The premise of this course is that stochastic simulations provide an alternative to calculus for learning the fundamental concepts of statistical inference and probability theory that are typically covered in more advanced courses. From this foundation we will explore how big data impact both the questions and answers in data science.  Suitable alternative to APMA0650. No prerequisites are required.","info":"Charles Lawrence (Primary) / APMA 0640 S01 / CRN: 16594","_id":"IVWlnwrKf37Lgx0e"}
{"title":"Intermediate Japanese","teaser":"Further practice of patterns and structures of the language. Readings are introduced on aspects of Japanese culture and society to develop reading and writing skills, enhance vocabulary, and provide points of departure for conversation in Japanese. Prerequisite: JAPN 0200 or equivalent. The East Asian Studies department wishes to provide language instruction to all interested students. If you are unable to register for this course due to enrollment limits but are dedicated to learning Japanese, please contact the instructor via email.","info":"Hiroshi Tajima (Primary) / JAPN 0300 S01 / CRN: 14965","_id":"IWJp6z7wCLTDs6aF"}
{"title":"Sculpture: Material Investigations","teaser":"This studio course addresses basic sculptural methods, i.e., additive and subtractive modeling, casting, and assemblage, and common sculptural materials, i.e., wood, metal, plaster, and found objects. Demonstrations and workshops on a number of sculptural tools and materials form the foundation for this studio. Students develop sculptural solutions to a given set of problems. Contemporary issues raised in critiques and readings. Extensive outside work is expected. Students are invited to take this course more than once, as the problems can be customized for those with more experience. Pre-requisite: VISA 0100 or 0110 or VISA 0130. 10 seats will be available during pre-registration. Students who are not admitted during pre-registration or were unable to pre-register should attend the first meeting of the class.","info":"Paul T. Myoda (Primary) / VISA 1410 S01 / CRN: 16097","_id":"IZee0OyMouY1AKza"}
{"title":"Silkscreen","teaser":"This course will provide students with a thorough knowledge of both water-based screen printing techniques and digital imaging. The intersection of digital printing processes and screen printing within the context of contemporary works on paper will be explored through a series of experimental mixed-media projects. Work will be in both black and white and color. Prerequisite: VISA 0100 or VISA 0110. This course restricted to 17 students. Students who are not admitted during pre-registration or were unable to pre-register should attend the first class.","info":"Leigh Tarentino (Primary) / VISA 1210G S01 / CRN: 16093","_id":"ImGiTq4QvMXOz5q1"}
{"title":"The Digital World","teaser":"Removes the mystery surrounding computers and the ever-growing digital world. Introduces a range of topics  and many aspects of multimedia, along with explanations of the underlying digital technology and its relevance to our society. Other topics include artificial intelligence, IT security, ethics and the economics of computing as well as the effects of its pervasiveness in today’s world. Introductory programming and analytic skills are developed through HTML, Photoshop, Excel and Python assignments. CSCI 0020 is a good introduction to a wide range of CS topics that have broad relevance in our society. No prerequisites. LILE","info":"Donald L. Stanford (Primary) / CSCI 0020 S01 / CRN: 15976","_id":"IqFrHVNOZm5693Te"}
{"title":"Advanced Biochemistry","teaser":"An advanced course in biochemistry, biochemical methods, and reading of the primary literature, featuring systematic coverage of the biochemistry of the central dogma, including DNA (replication, repair, recombination), RNA (regulation and mechanism of transcription, processing, turnover), and proteins structure, synthesis, modification, degradation, mechanisms of action, function). Expected: BIOL 0280, CHEM 0350, 0360. Graduate students register for BIOL 2270.","info":"Rebecca Page (Primary) / BIOL 1270 S01 / CRN: 14719","_id":"It9yPXF8nMRHc24w"}
{"title":"The World of Byzantium","teaser":"Caught between the East and West, the culture of Byzantium inherited the ancient worlds of Greece, Rome, and Jerusalem, nurturing many a modern ideology, conflict, and identity.  Byzantium is explored through its history, texts, and art.  We examine the foundation and history of Constantinople, Iconoclasm, the Crusades, medieval Christianity and Islam, Byzantine court life, concepts of gender, self, and sexuality.  WRIT","info":"Efstratios Papaioannou (Primary) / CLAS 0660 S01 / CRN: 15929","_id":"ItrHoVHHmLbwPiBF"}
{"title":"Organic Chemistry","teaser":"Sequel to CHEM 0350. Investigates the constitution and properties of organic compounds at a fundamental level with an introduction to physical organic, bioorganic, and synthetic organic chemistry. Laboratory work is concerned with the identification and characterization of organic compounds, including modern instrumental methods. Three hours of lecture and five hours of prelaboratory and laboratory. Prerequisite: CHEM 0350.\nStudents MUST register for a lecture section, a lab and a conference. If you previously completed CHEM 0360 laboratory but received a grade of no credit in the course, please register for lab section 11.","info":"Kathleen M. Hess (Primary) / CHEM 0360 C01 / CRN: 14825","_id":"IuvIQtx34cSCNYkY"}
{"title":"Biomaterials","teaser":"A biomaterial is defined as a material suitable for use in medical implants that come in direct contact with patients' tissues. These include polymers, metals, and ceramics, and materials obtained from biological sources or through recombinant biotechnology. Goal: to provide comprehensive coverage of biomaterial science and technology. Emphasizes the transition from replacement to repair strategies. For advanced undergraduates and graduate students. Prerequisite: BIOL 0800 or instructor permission.","info":"Beth Anne Zielinski-Habershaw (Primary) / BIOL 1120 S01 / CRN: 14780","_id":"Iz5VOM2XKVXbDzOq"}
{"title":"Personality and Clinical Assessment","teaser":"Examines methods used in the study of child and adult personality, including microanalysis of social interactions, observer report, self report, test data, and life outcome data. Standardized personality assessment instruments will be examined in the context of their reliability, predictive and construct validity. Students will design research projects using these methods, collect and analyze data, give oral presentations, and prepare a written report of their research. Prerequisites: CLPS 0701 (PSYC 0300), and CLPS 0900 (PSYC/COGS 0090) or equivalent. Enrollment limited to 27.","info":"Jack C. Wright (Primary) / CLPS 1790 S01 / CRN: 15712","_id":"J22cdFhuBJoGj3CX"}
{"title":"Introduction to Programming Languages","teaser":"Explores the principles of modern programming languages by implementation. Examines linguistic features, especially control operators such as first-class functions, exceptions, and continuations. Studies data and their types, including polymorphism, type inference, and type soundness. Examines compiler and run-time system topics: continuation-passing style and garbage collection. Prerequisite: CSCI 0160, CSCI 0180 or CSCI 0190. Preferred: CSCI 0220, either CSCI 0320 or CSCI 0330, and CSCI 0510.","info":"Shriram Krishnamurthi (Primary) / CSCI 1730 S01 / CRN: 16542","_id":"J4aliP2Qx0ZJ2ygr"}
{"title":"The Social Lives of Dead Bodies in China and Beyond","teaser":"Corpses, much like the living, are not neutral bodies, but are managed into structures of social meaning. This course aims to uncover corpses as signifiers and actors during times of community upheaval. We will take modern China as our focal point, but also look elsewhere in the Americas, Europe, Africa and Asia since the 19th century, when the broadening scale and nature of warfare; state expansion; rapid urban and rural development; global circulations of technology; and the interplay of international philanthropies with older forms of charity and ritual pacification significantly affected the treatment, conceptions, and actions of the dead.  WRIT SOPH","info":"Rebecca A. Nedostup (Primary) / HIST 0685A S01 / CRN: 15417","_id":"J506hcduQyt2MhmD"}
{"title":"Microbial Pathogenesis","teaser":"Examines microbial pathogens and the underlying mechanisms by which infectious organisms cause diseases. Bacterial, fungal, protozoal and viral pathogens will be studied using tools of modern biology. Also examined are the host's immune responses to infection and disease. Areas covered  include mechanisms of pathogen internationalization and survival, immune responses, signal transduction and pathophsiology. Expected: BIOL 0510, 0530, or 1550.","info":"Andrew G. Campbell (Primary) / BIOL 2640B S01 / CRN: 14692","_id":"J97NqIbbPgGu61s3"}
{"title":"Ethics in the Novel","teaser":"Consideration of novels in terms of their treatment of such philosophical themes as death, courage, faith, betrayal, responsibility to others, and mercy. Focuses on themes in moral philosophy rather than themes in social and political philosophy. Half of the course deals with Malory, the other half with contemporary American novels. No pre-requisites. WRIT","info":"Felicia Nimue Ackerman (Primary) / PHIL 1400 S01 / CRN: 15092","_id":"J9GkASPCxEv1t1ie"}
{"title":"95 North: New York Fictions  ","teaser":"In this course we will consider humanity’s fate in twentieth-century and postmillennial Gotham.  Through a broad range of literature and film that treats New York as a destination unto itself, 95 North examines the city’s representational status as our nation’s de facto capital by focusing on its most undemocratic and antisocial features (e.g., widespread disaffection, racial animus, gentrification, vice, and criminality).  Writers include James Weldon Johnson, Saul Bellow, LeRoi Jones, Frank O’Hara, Samuel R. Delany, Jay McInerney, Diana Son, and Teju Cole. FYS","info":"Radiclani Clytus (Primary) / AMST 0150M S02 / CRN: 15639","_id":"JQMSIvGPukcXpBT7"}
{"title":"The Epidemiology and Control of Infectious Diseases","teaser":"Course objectives are to introduce students to key methods and concepts in the epidemiological study and control of infectious diseases. By the end of this course, students will have a solid foundation in the distribution, transmission, and pathogenesis of major infectious diseases that affect human populations. We will investigate methods to design and evaluate public health strategies to prevent or eliminate infectious diseases, including: outbreak investigation, disease surveillance, infection control, screening, and vaccination. The course is open to undergraduate students who have completed PHP0320 and to graduate students who have completed or are concurrently enrolled in either PHP2120 or PHP2150.","info":"Brandon David Lewis Marshall (Primary) / PHP 1854 S01 / CRN: 16771","_id":"JQUV0Lzxpg3IvBmG"}
{"title":"Negotiating an American Classroom","teaser":"In this course, international graduate students increase their abilities to communicate accurately and fluently in English with American undergraduates. International students develop their ability to interact, in culturally appropriate ways, in a variety of teaching situations common to an institution of higher education, where they are responsible for expressing and explaining complex information and ideas in English. Instructor permission required.","info":"Barbara Gourlay (Primary) / EINT 2300 S01 / CRN: 14807","_id":"JWZ7rx34ffQLfnGi"}
{"title":"Ancient Philosophy","teaser":"We will discuss the ethics, epistemology, and metaphysics of the principal figures in ancient philosophy from the Presocratics to Aristotle. Emphasis is given to understanding the problems the philosophers were trying to solve and to assessing the arguments for their various positions. Primary readings are from the original sources in translation. WRIT","info":"Mary Louise G. Gill (Primary) / PHIL 0350 S01 / CRN: 15083","_id":"JXLhkHz6fkElOpig"}
{"title":"Tissue Engineering","teaser":"Tissue engineering is an interdisciplinary field that incorporates progress in cellular and molecular biology, materials science, and engineering, to advance the goal of replacing or regenerating compromised tissue function. Using an integrative approach, we will examine tissue design and development, manipulation of the tissue microenvironment, and current strategies for functional reconstruction of injured tissues. Expected: CHEM 0330, plus BIOL 0500 or 0800. Enrollment limited to 20.  Instructor permission required.","info":"Diane Hoffman-Kim (Primary) / BIOL 1140 S01 / CRN: 14778","_id":"JbccpAwacPXucwuD"}
{"title":"American Sign Language V","teaser":"Focuses on the use of ASL discourse in formal as well as informal settings. Students will explore and present the advanced ASL genres of public speaking, artistic expression, formal discussion, interview, and narrative projects. Development of ASL vocabulary in specialized area not covered in previous courses. Prerequisite: ASL IV (SIGN 0400) or equivalent.","info":"Timothy B. Riker (Primary) / SIGN 0500 S01 / CRN: 14860","_id":"JcSqPfEwwfagxdxc"}
{"title":"Intermediate German I","teaser":"Focuses on deepening students' understanding of modern German culture by reading texts and viewing films pertinent to Germany today. Intended to provide a thorough review of German grammar and help students develop their writing, reading, listening, and speaking skills. Frequent writing assignments. Four hours per week. Recommended prerequisite: GRMN 0200.","info":"Jane Sokolosky (Primary) / GRMN 0300 S01 / CRN: 15839","_id":"JrtOENztNa488jPH"}
{"title":"Introduction to Hispanic Linguistics","teaser":"This course introduces students to the study of language and deepens their knowledge of Spanish in its main linguistic components. After briefly considering the nature of language, we will study the sounds of Spanish (phonology and phonetics), word and sentence structure (morphology and syntax), and the elements and mechanics to express and interpret meaning (semantics and pragmatics). We will then turn our focus to linguistic phenomena such as changes in Spanish over time (historical linguistics), variations in the language according to region and social group (sociolinguistics), and bilingualism, with special attention to Spanish in the U.S.","info":"Silvia Sobral (Primary) / HISP 0710C S01 / CRN: 16260","_id":"Jufeq2eZ074kjHdF"}
{"title":"Comparative Constitutional Law","teaser":"An introduction to constitutional law of other countries and a comparison of their constitutional law to U.S. constitutional law. We will read court cases and other materials from most of the G-20 countries including: Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, India, Canada, Australia, Brazil, South Africa, Indonesia, the European Court of Human Rights, and the United States. Topics include: constitutionalism, judicial review, separation of powers, federalism, free speech law, freedom of religion, criminal procedure, rights to property or welfare, rights of privacy and human dignity, judicial policing of the political process, states of emergency, and constitutional amendment processes. WRIT","info":"Steven G. Calabresi (Primary) / POLS 1822L S01 / CRN: 16630","_id":"JugQDsY0i2G8eQMr"}
{"title":"History of Egypt I (EGYT 1430)","teaser":"Interested students must register for EGYT 1430 (CRN 15199).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ARCH 1621 S01 / CRN: 16737","_id":"Jv5Qi5R8JM9HNZdO"}
{"title":"What is Critique (GRMN 2661D)","teaser":"Interested students must register for GRMN 2661D (CRN 15973).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 2650Q S01 / CRN: 16540","_id":"JzjcmrZjnNylULqi"}
{"title":"Introduction to Machine Learning","teaser":"We explore the theory and practice of statistical machine learning, focusing on computational methods for supervised and unsupervised data analysis.  Specific topics include Bayesian and maximum likelihood parameter estimation, regularization and sparsity-promoting priors, kernel methods, the expectation maximization algorithm, and models for data with temporal or hierarchical structure.  Applications to regression, categorization, clustering, and dimensionality reduction problems are illustrated by examples from vision, language, bioinformatics, and information retrieval.  Prerequisites: CSCI 0040 or 0150 or 0180 or 0190; and CSCI 0450 or CSCI 1450 or APMA 1650 or MATH 1610; and CSCI 0530 or MATH 0520 or 0540; or instructor permission.","info":"Erik B. Sudderth (Primary) / CSCI 1420 S01 / CRN: 16294","_id":"K0r9vydYqNMw5y6o"}
{"title":"Race, Class, and Ethnicity in the Modern World","teaser":"Applies sociological analysis to understand present and historical cases of ethnic and race relations and conflicts. Topics addressed are the social construction of race and ethnicity; historical processes of racialization; ethnic conflict and the nation state; and the linkages between race, class, and social mobility. Focuses on racial and ethnic relations in the U.S., but also has a strong international comparative component.","info":"Jose Itzigsohn (Primary) / SOC 1270 S01 / CRN: 15437","_id":"K7aIzmv8TmlK6tuY"}
{"title":"Computational Molecular Biology","teaser":"High-throughput experimental approaches now allow molecular biologists to make large-scale measurements of DNA, RNA, and protein, the three fundamental molecules of the cell. The resulting datasets are often too large for manual analysis and demand computational techniques. This course introduces algorithms for sequence comparison and alignment; molecular evolution and phylogenetics; DNA/RNA sequencing and assembly; recognition of genes and regulatory elements; and RNA and protein structure. The course demonstrates how to model biological problems in terms of computer science.  \nPrerequisites: CSCI 0160, CSCI 0180 or CSCI 0190, or consent of instructor.","info":"Benjamin J. Raphael (Primary) / CSCI 1810 S01 / CRN: 16300","_id":"KG1YfugGpSRE5ZHP"}
{"title":"Hamlet: Appropriation, Mediation, Theory","teaser":"Close study of Shakespeare's Hamlet in relation to critical and theoretical discourses it has prompted over four centuries including Romantic; psychoanalytic, and deconstructive.  Consideration of texts prompted by Hamlet by Goethe, Eliot, Zbignew Herbert, Stoppard, and Hamlet films including Kozintsev, Olivier, Branagh, Chabrol and Almereyda. The course ends with Hamlet in the Arab world. Enrollment limited to 15.","info":"Karen Newman (Primary) / ENGL 2360X S01 / CRN: 15454","_id":"KLpJn8uO8M5XQzrq"}
{"title":"Acting: Monologue Performance","teaser":"This is a two-credit course and is open only to students of the Brown University/Trinity Rep MFA Consortium program. Acting assignments will include solo work presented in a variety of ways. These might include a selection of monologues and songs presented by the students to show the full range of his or her abilities. A performance might also include a solo piece written by the student and presented as a single-actor production.","info":"Stephen Berenson (Primary) / TAPS 2700 S01 / CRN: 11016","_id":"KLzveI3zewV0IpO2"}
{"title":"Political Economy I ","teaser":"This first course in political economy provides theoretical and empirical coverage of the\n application of economic analysis to political behavior and institutions. This course is\n designed for students wishing to specialize in political economy but may also be useful\n for students specializing in related areas, such as development economics and\n macroeconomics. After starting with a basic overview of candidates and voters, we then\n turn to specific topics in the areas of electoral systems, legislatures and legislative\n bargaining, the role of the media, local public finance, and fiscal federalism.","info":"Brian G. Knight (Primary) / ECON 2260 S01 / CRN: 16712","_id":"KMo9iK4mE94xBh0M"}
{"title":"Writing and Speaking Hebrew","teaser":"Enables students to improve their skills in speaking and writing Hebrew on a variety of topics. Features advanced work on language structure and active language practice in the classroom. Class discussions of Israeli current events draw on Israeli stories, poems, television programs, and films and on the Israeli press. Students also compose essays and stories in Hebrew. Prerequisite: JUDS 0400 or equivalent. Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Ruth Adler Ben Yehuda (Primary) / JUDS 0500 S01 / CRN: 14673","_id":"KQfMEiVyIIozT3rJ"}
{"title":"The Nature of Morality","teaser":"Investigates major theories and issues concerning the nature of moral value. Readings from 20th-century authors. Issues include naturalism, supervenience, moral motivation, subjectivity/objectivity of value, skepticism, moral relativism, and moral realism. WRIT","info":"James Dreier (Primary) / PHIL 1640 S01 / CRN: 15079","_id":"KRi92hLuc2dIutab"}
{"title":"Cinema and Stardom: Image/Industry/Fantasy","teaser":"This course focuses on the role of the star within the \"machinery\" of Hollywood: how stars function in the film industry, within cinematic and extra-cinematic texts, and at the level of individual fantasy and desire. The paradoxes posed by stars--represented as like yet unlike us, public yet privately known, commodities yet (super)human--suggest complex formations and implications of the star system. We will read film theories and histories and investigate films in which star images are foregrounded to explore these issues.","info":"MCM 1200G F01 / CRN: 14889","_id":"KSZDAFUGpufMkwSs"}
{"title":"Astronomy, Divination and Politics in the Ancient World (ASYR 1700)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ASYR 1700 (CRN 14845).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"SCSO 1152 S01 / CRN: 16310","_id":"KVvtpIV9E744Q1oN"}
{"title":"Plant Development, Structure and Function","teaser":"This course presents an integrated account of development, structure and function in plants, especially seed plants.  Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS WRIT","info":"Peter Heywood (Primary) / BIOL 0190U S01 / CRN: 14702","_id":"KXY02P92PbtEKpPp"}
{"title":"Crisis Management","teaser":"Introduces future policymakers to the multifaceted decision-making process in which governments, businesses, advocacy organizations, and the public are thrust into the throes of a policy crisis. Various crisis management theories, key stakeholders in a crisis situation, and the positive and negative effects of various strategies are analyzed. Enrollment limited to 20 junior and senior concentrators in Public Policy. This course satisfies the Public Policy Problems requirement.","info":"PLCY 1700Y S01 / CRN: 15706","_id":"KbPekfZhbaaojFZ0"}
{"title":"The Meaning of Life","teaser":"This is an introductory course in ethics, with a focus on the question of what is the nature of the human good, or of a life lived well.  Readings will be from classical sources (Aristotle, Epicurus, Kant, Nietzsche, Camus) as well as from contemporary authors.  In investigating this question, the course will also introduce students to some of the main problems and positions in moral philosophy.  Central concepts such as obligation, responsibility, pluralism, moral knowledge will be discussed, but in the larger context of what is the nature of the good life.  No prior work in philosophy will be presupposed.","info":"Charles Larmore (Primary) / PHIL 0450 S01 / CRN: 15081","_id":"KechsFOoMt7WcFyY"}
{"title":"Writers on Writing","teaser":"Offers students an introduction to the study of literature (including works from more than one genre) with special attention given to a writer's way of reading. This course will include visits to the course by contemporary writers, who will read to the class and talk about their work.  Enrollment is limited to 30 students.","info":"Brian K. Evenson (Primary) / LITR 1200 S01 / CRN: 15547","_id":"Kj2lLAFnic2DvInH"}
{"title":"Intermediate Calculus","teaser":"Three-dimensional analytic geometry. Differential and integral calculus for functions of two or three variables: partial derivatives, multiple integrals, line integrals, Green's Theorem, Stokes' Theorem. Prerequisite: MATH 0100, 0170, or 0190.","info":"MATH 0180 C01 / CRN: 15354","_id":"KmVaczaA6oKHphvg"}
{"title":"Advanced Spanish II","teaser":"Offers continued, advanced-level work in speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills, with focused review of challenging aspects of Spanish grammar. Course materials include films, music, art works, and a variety of written texts (articles, stories, plays, a novella, etc.) chosen to promote class discussion and in-depth written analysis. There will be individual and group activities, including in-class presentations and creative writing projects. Prerequisite: HISP0500 or placement: SATII scores between 670 and 740, Brown Placement Exam scores between 571 and 650, or AP score of 5 in language. Please check Hispanic Studies website (Undergraduate Programs) for course descriptions and placement information. Enrollment limited to 18. Pre-enrolled students must attend the first four days of class to maintain their pre-registered status and notify the instructor in advance if they must miss any day before the 4th class when the composition of the course section is finalized. Students with scores of 750 and above on the SAT II, 551 on the Brown Placement Exam, or 5 in AP Literature should consider offerings in the HISP 0730-0740-0750 range.","info":"Beth W. Bauer (Primary) / HISP 0600 S01 / CRN: 15521","_id":"KmZC91vDzKjNvsiS"}
{"title":"Mathematical Methods of Fluid and Solid Geophysics and Geology","teaser":"Intended for undergraduates concentrating in geological and physical sciences or engineering, especially those interested in the quantitative study of Earth. Problem sets will cover common approaches to quantify the dynamics and chemistry of solids and fluids in nature. Mathematical topics to be introduced include linear algebra, vectors and tensors, differential equations, dynamical systems, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, empirical orthogonal functions, fractals, chaos, and statistics. Applications include waves in the oceans, atmosphere, and solid earth, convective and conductive heat flow, reaction rates, gravitational potential energy, Newton’s laws on a rotating planet, measuring coastlines and ranges, and dating errors in stratigraphy.","info":"GEOL 0350 L01 / CRN: 16796","_id":"KvEY0WfVMr4fvKmc"}
{"title":"Database Management Systems","teaser":"Introduction to database structure, organization, languages, and implementation. Relational model, query languages, query processing, query optimization, normalization, file structures, concurrency control and recovery algorithms, and distributed databases. Coverage of modern applications such as the Web, but with emphasis on Database Management Systems internals. Prerequisites: CSCI 0160, CSCI 0180, or CSCI 0190. One of CSCI 0330 or CSCI 0320 is strongly recommended.","info":"Stanley B. Zdonik Jr. (Primary) / CSCI 1270 S01 / CRN: 16290","_id":"L1Z21eHeSgKA02BO"}
{"title":"Intensive Survey of Spanish Literature","teaser":"An introduction to the major authors and literary movements of Spanish literature from the Middle Ages to contemporary times. Focuses on building critical vocabulary. Also aims to develop students' written and oral expression in Spanish. Preparatory course for 1000-level courses for students who achieve the highest placement in Spanish. Prerequisite: HISP 0600, or AP score =5, or SAT II (Literature) score of 750 or above, or Brown placement score of 651 or above. WRIT","info":"Sarah L. Thomas (Primary) / HISP 0740 S01 / CRN: 15560","_id":"LB2ngJy8ayCi0iOa"}
{"title":"Stages of the Contemplative Path","teaser":"One common metaphor for human life and self-transformation is the journey or the path. Contemplative traditions have also employed this image, offering both concise and expansive maps of the stages of practice and anticipated end goals of the contemplative life. The study of path structures allow us to carefully compare the relationship between specific cognitive, affective, and somatic practices, their resultant states and traits of human experience, and the meaning and value ascribed to them in different historical and cultural contexts.","info":"UNIV 0456 L01 / CRN: 16599","_id":"LKG1slmiGaewLsGq"}
{"title":"History of Life Itself: Biopolitics in Modern Europe","teaser":"Life has long existed, but also has a history of its own.  With the development of the natural sciences and state governance of its own populations, human life can be said to have entered into history.  Homo Sapiens became the subject of medical science, political philosophy, and state law.  In looking at the intersecting histories of science, politics, and theories of life, this seminar will examine the origins and effects of political economy, biology, public health, racism, eugenics, state violence, and ultimately democracy.  We will read meta-histories from theorists, case studies from historians, and classic works of political philosophy.","info":"Jonathan C Gentry (Primary) / HIST 1979S S01 / CRN: 16851","_id":"LKO584ncQnoHsbDO"}
{"title":"Analysis of Teaching: History and Social Studies","teaser":"S/NC.","info":"Eric H. Shed (Primary) / EDUC 1080B S01 / CRN: 14650","_id":"LLwS4mtKMbvrQEx1"}
{"title":"Advanced Arabic:  Tales of the City","teaser":"The Arab city, current site of a major political upheaval, is the central theme of this integrated-skill language and culture course.   Images of cities, as multifaceted as the people who inhabit them, animate cinema screens and daily news reports, inspire masters of writing, artists, and musicians, arouse political activism.   By engaging the complex representation of the urban theme in contemporary discursive and art forms, this course will enhance students' understanding of the dynamics of urban politics and culture in the Middle East, while building a content-specific lexicon and advanced communicative ability. Prerequisite: ARAB 0600, or an equivalent. Enrollment limited to 12.","info":"Mirena Christoff (Primary) / ARAB 0700 S01 / CRN: 14699","_id":"LM1YBunA7wYmoagc"}
{"title":"What is Contemporary Art History","teaser":"Contemporary art history is a field in formation.  As such, it is often contested and embraced, misunderstood and championed. Is contemporary art history a radical new field with a discrete set of practices, methodology and historiography?  Or is contemporary art history simply a study of the present? Is the study of the contemporary relevant to other areas of art history? Is contemporary art history a model for other disciplinary approaches to the present? Throughout the term, this graduate seminar will discuss each of these questions. This course is open to students of all art historical periods.","info":"Courtney J. Martin (Primary) / HIAA 2870H S01 / CRN: 15646","_id":"LQM7rUJmVS4hfHLL"}
{"title":"Equilibrium, Rate, and Structure Lab","teaser":"Please see course description for CHEM 0330.","info":"Li-Qiong Wang (Primary) / CHEM 0330L L01 / CRN: 16370","_id":"LXfkAomMsGKPOCKK"}
{"title":"Computational Approaches to Modelling and Quantitative Analysis in Natural Sciences: An Introduction","teaser":"Application of numerical analysis to mathematical modelling in the natural sciences including topics such as ground water and glacier flow, earthquakes, climate models, phase equilibrium, and population dynamics. Numerical methods will include the solution of linear algebraic systems of equations, numerical integration, solution of differential equations, time series analysis, statistical data analysis tools. Development of computer programming skills in the Matlab programming environment. Suggested prerequisites: MATH 0090, 0100; PHYS 0030, 0040, or 0050, 0060.","info":"Edgar M. Parmentier (Primary) / GEOL 0250 S01 / CRN: 16633","_id":"LaIY0Mo1Yc37gqh8"}
{"title":"Industrial Design","teaser":"Brown engineering and RISD industrial design faculty lead product development teams through a design cycle. Engineers explore industrial design, designers gain some insight into engineering, and both groups can apply their skills to challenging problems. Frequent presentations, field trips, critiques, and labs. Preference given to seniors. Prerequisites: completion of engineering core.  Enrollment limited to 15 students.","info":"Christopher Bull (Primary) / ENGN 1930M S01 / CRN: 16457","_id":"Lav9cNuwdtkSR9JD"}
{"title":"Biological Physics","teaser":"Introduction on structures of proteins, nucleotides, and membranes; electrostatics and hydration; chemical equilibrium; binding affinity and kinetics; hydrodynamics and transport; cellular mechanics and motions; biophysical techniques including sedimentation, electrophoresis, microscopy and spectroscopy. Suitable for undergraduate science and engineering majors and graduate students with limited background in life science. Prerequisites: MATH 0180.","info":"PHYS 1610 S01 / CRN: 15249","_id":"Ld2VJsM6ajQof6ZA"}
{"title":"Japan: Nature, Ritual, and the Arts","teaser":"This course is an introduction to Japanese culture and aesthetics as represented in pre-modern literature, drama, tea practices, landscape and the fine arts. Recurring themes include Japanese attitudes toward the natural world; traditional conceptions of beauty; and the function of ritual in artistic cultivation. The course is designed for students who have no previous exposure to Japanese studies at the college level; no prerequisites.","info":"Janine T. Anderson Sawada (Primary) / EAST 0180 S01 / CRN: 14994","_id":"LhLGVFx9Xxr3vOMq"}
{"title":"Environmental Science in a Changing World","teaser":"Introduces students to environmental science and the challenges we face in studying human impacts on an ever-changing earth system. We will explore what is known, and not known, about how ecosystems respond to perturbations. This understanding is crucial, because natural systems provide vital services (water and air filtration, climate stabilization, food supply, erosion and flood control) that can not be easily or inexpensively replicated. Special emphasis will be placed on climate, food and water supply, population growth, and energy.","info":"Stephen Porder (Primary) / ENVS 0490 S01 / CRN: 15675","_id":"LjbuVpVvwTd9gYrC"}
{"title":"Samurai and Merchants, Prostitutes and Priests: Japanese Urban Culture in the Early Modern Period","teaser":"Examines the cultural traditions of the urban samurai, the wealthy merchant, and the plebian artisan that emerged in the great metropolises of Edo, Osaka, and Kyoto during the early modern period. Focuses on the efforts of the government to mold certain kinds of cultural development for its own purposes and the efforts of various social groups to redirect those efforts to suit their desires and self-interest. WRIT P","info":"James L. McClain (Primary) / HIST 1140 S01 / CRN: 16561","_id":"LtYYCpc9CZMiKuEO"}
{"title":"Techniques in Regenerative Medicine: Cells, Scaffolds and Staining","teaser":"Regenerative Medicine, also known as Tissue Engineering, is the process of creating living, functional tissues to repair or replace native tissue or organ functions that have been lost due to disease or congenital defects. As such, it is a prominent scientific discipline that can either \"stand alone\" or complement material-based research efforts in the areas of device design, drug delivery, diagnostics and pharmaceuticals. Students will develop proficiencies in basic cell culture techniques, early stage tissue regeneration strategies and histochemical characterization of mammalian cell constructs. Enrollment limited to 10 first year students. Instructor permission required. Half-credit course. S/NC. FYS","info":"Beth Anne Zielinski-Habershaw (Primary) / BIOL 0150D L01 / CRN: 14799","_id":"LtgxfA6U4gqaNPe6"}
{"title":"Human Evolution","teaser":"Examination of theory and evidence on human evolution in the past, present and future. Topics include evolution and adaptation, biocultural adaptation, fossil evidence, behavioral evolution in primates, human genetic variation and contemporary human biological variation. WRIT","info":"Andrew K. Scherer (Primary) / ANTH 0310 S01 / CRN: 16190","_id":"MAiOdaE9WA33tFpn"}
{"title":"Design and Analysis of Algorithms","teaser":"A single algorithmic improvement can have a greater impact on our ability to solve a problem than ten years of incremental improvements in CPU speed. We study techniques for designing and analyzing algorithms. Typical problem areas addressed include hashing, searching, dynamic programming, graph algorithms, network flow, and optimization algorithms including linear programming.  Prerequisites:  CSCI 0160, CSCI 0180, or CSCI 0190, and one of CSCI 0220 or CSCI 1450.","info":"Paul A. Valiant (Primary) / CSCI 1570 S01 / CRN: 16295","_id":"MGiSCy3jbbZJREdC"}
{"title":"Dance Composition","teaser":"Focuses on building the individual's creative voice. A movement vocabulary is developed from Western techniques (ballet, American modern dance, Laban/Bartenieff movement analysis, vernacular forms, space-harmony/movement physics, and the body therapies) along with group improvisations and collaboration with artists in other disciplines.  Enrollment limited to 40. S/NC.","info":"Michelle R. Bach-Coulibaly (Primary) / TAPS 0320 S01 / CRN: 16113","_id":"MLHRe74NSJCBqrnW"}
{"title":"Translating Korean: Fiction, Poetry, Film and K-Pop","teaser":"This course explores the theory and practice of translation in the context of Korean cultural production. Each week we shall grapple with a particular issue in translation studies in dialogue with a Korean-language text. By the end of this course students should be able to locate the tools necessary to carry out translations from Korean to English, to demonstrate an understanding of translation as a craft with its own standards, responsibilities, and complexities, and to have completed a significant translation project themselves. Advanced learners of the Korean language as well as native speakers of Korean are welcome. DPLL","info":"Samuel E. Perry (Primary) / EAST 1950W S01 / CRN: 15306","_id":"MLXm1SAuQz7lkvWO"}
{"title":"History of Egypt I","teaser":"A survey of the history and society of ancient Egypt from prehistoric times to the end of the Eighteenth Dynasty (ca. 5000-1300 BC). Readings include translations from the original documents that serve as primary sources for the reconstruction of ancient Egyptian history. WRIT","info":"Laurel D. Bestock (Primary) / EGYT 1430 S02 / CRN: 15199","_id":"MS60SxK0Gch7x1GR"}
{"title":"Neuroethics","teaser":"In this course, we will examine ethical, social, and philosophical issues raised by developments in the neurosciences. Topics will include: neurodevelopment and the emergence of persons; the impact of child abuse on brain development; aging, brain disease, and mental decline; life extension research; strategies and technologies for enhancement of human traits; \"mind-reading\" technologies; agency, autonomy, and excuse from responsibility; error and bias in memory; mind control; neuroscientific and evolutionary models of religious belief and moral judgement. Enrollment limited to 20.  Instructor permission required. LILE","info":"Jeffrey S. Poland (Primary) / SCSO 1700P S01 / CRN: 16312","_id":"MUI41HTTmnWeWcbp"}
{"title":"Instrumentation Design","teaser":"Sensors for pressure, temperature, blood flow, muscle and neural activity. Amplifiers, filters, and A/D-D/A converters. The use of computers in monitoring and controlling physiological processes. Feedback controllers for temperature, flow rate, and experimental stimuli. Intended as a design course primarily for biomedical engineers. Lab times to be arranged. WRIT","info":"David A. Borton (Primary) / ENGN 1230 S01 / CRN: 16441","_id":"MbyZ5sw1Cizp0Cgo"}
{"title":"Death and Afterlife in the Biblical Tradition","teaser":"A close analysis of the development of ideas about death and the afterlife in the Hebrew Bible and in the literatures of Second Temple Judaism and early Christianity. Topics: life and death in Israel and ancient West Asia; the abode of the dead and its denizens; from Sheol to Heaven, Hell, and the final judgment; religious specialists, rituals, and the literature of death: necromancy; burial and mourning rites; cults of the dead ancestor. No prerequisites. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS LILE WRIT","info":"Saul Olyan (Primary) / RELS 0090J S01 / CRN: 15874","_id":"McQBLGebWcGWE9iQ"}
{"title":"Field Archaeology in the Ancient World","teaser":"Always wanted to be Indiana Jones? This course, focusing on the Mediterranean world and its neighbors in antiquity, interprets field archaeology in its broadest sense. In addition to exploring \"how to do\" archaeology - the techniques of locating, retrieving, and analyzing ancient remains - we will consider how the nature of these methodologies affects our understanding of the past.","info":"Laurel D. Bestock (Primary) / ARCH 0100 S01 / CRN: 16179","_id":"Md3Fsd7B5gndizC8"}
{"title":"The International Law and Politics of Human Rights","teaser":"Introduces students to the law and politics of international human rights; examines the construction of an international human rights regime and its influence on international politics. Will survey the actors and organizations involved in the promotion of human rights around the globe, as well as the obstacles. Will review competing conceptions of human rights, whether human rights are universal, problems of enforcement, and the role of human rights in foreign policy. Major topics include civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; genocide, torture, women's rights, humanitarian intervention, and the international criminal court.  POLS 0400 strongly encouraged as a prerequisite.","info":"Nina Tannenwald (Primary) / POLS 1500 S01 / CRN: 15030","_id":"MfRGAi6glmDWGuJe"}
{"title":"The Art of Memoir in Theory and Practice","teaser":"The course introduces students to the historical and theoretical nuances of memoir. You will critically engage with a variety of readings and develop an appreciation of your creative role as a memoirist. In the process of crafting a portfolio of work you will explore the complexities of remembering and experiment with the style of narrative voice and structure.  Writing sample required. Prerequisite: ENGL 0930 or any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. Class list will be reduced to 17 after writing samples are reviewed during the first week of classes. Preference will be given to English concentrators. S/NC.","info":"Robert P. Ward (Primary) / ENGL 1190P S01 / CRN: 15402","_id":"MolggzDt0oXvnZCk"}
{"title":"Korean","teaser":"Begins with an introduction to the Korean writing system (Hangul) and focuses on building communicative competence in modern Korean in the four language modalities (listening, speaking, reading, writing). Provides a foundation for later work in spoken and written Korean. Six classroom hours per week. No prerequisite. Enrollment limited to 18. This is the first half of a year-long course whose first semester grade is normally a temporary one. Neither semester may be elected independently without special written permission. The final grade submitted at the end of the course work in KREA 0200 covers the entire year and is recorded as the final grade for both semesters.","info":"Hyunju Ha (Primary) / KREA 0100 S01 / CRN: 14951","_id":"Mwrp7Fv7qDTqr7z9"}
{"title":"African American Religion and Politics","teaser":"This seminar places a theological lens on Black life in North America. Its general premise is that implicit spiritual strivings for political equality can be found in everyday black life, that they suffuse black cultural expression, and that they have been seminal for conceptions of black self-assertion in the US.  We shall raise questions regarding the black “religion”, the role of the “black church”, Black Religious Studies versus Africana Religious Studies, and the variety of ways that African Americans have used ‘religion’ (broadly speaking) to support their quest for citizenship (recognition, inclusion and membership in the American family).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Andre Willis (Primary) / HMAN 1971M S01 / CRN: 16606","_id":"MxAs99vKBemrn6sJ"}
{"title":"African American Literature and the Legacy of Slavery","teaser":"Traces the relationship between the African American literary tradition and slavery from the antebellum slave narrative to the flowering of historical novels about slavery at the end of the twentieth century. Positions these texts within specific literary, historical, and political frameworks. Authors may include Frederick Douglass, Harriet Jacobs, Charles Chesnutt, Octavia Butler, and Toni Morrison. DPLL","info":"Rolland D. Murray (Primary) / ENGL 0710B S01 / CRN: 15474","_id":"My5RacGIns8wrzDS"}
{"title":"Introduction to Costume Construction","teaser":"An introduction to the study and practice of core costume construction skills. Topics include basic machine, hand sewing and patterning techniques.","info":"Ronald M. Cesario (Primary) / TAPS 1281M S01 / CRN: 16154","_id":"N06oCEN2PU5nqSaI"}
{"title":"Dynamic Optimization and Economic Growth","teaser":"The role of human capital, income distribution, population growth, technological progress, and international trade in the determination of differences in growth performance across countries. Inequality and economic growth. Technological progress and wage inequality. The transition from stagnation to sustained growth. Evolution and growth.","info":"Oded Galor (Primary) / ECON 2830 S01 / CRN: 15184","_id":"N9Fp93Kw5zXG06qI"}
{"title":"Rebel Island: Cuba, 1492-Present","teaser":"Cuba, once the jewel in the Spanish imperial crown, has been home to some of the world's most radical revolutions and violent retrenchments. For two centuries, its influence has spread well beyond its borders, igniting the passion of nationalists and internationalists as well as the wrath of imperial aggression. This course traces the history of Cuba from its colonial origins through the present, foregrounding the revolutionary imaginary that has sustained popular action-from anti-slavery rebellions through the Cuban Revolution and its discontents-in addition to the historical processes that have forged one of the world's mot vibrant socio-cultural traditions.","info":"Jennifer L. Lambe (Primary) / HIST 1320 S01 / CRN: 14945","_id":"NBvKB3zi8DxT1zC8"}
{"title":"Topics in Distributed Databases and Systems","teaser":"This course explores data and resource management issues that arise in the design, implementation, and deployment of distributed computing systems by covering the state of the art in research and industry. Typical topics include cloud computing and sensor networks. Recommended: CSCI 0320 or equivalent.","info":"Ugur Cetintemel (Primary) / CSCI 2950T S01 / CRN: 16886","_id":"NFGVa5PagLLbvO6x"}
{"title":"Urban Life in Providence: An Introduction ","teaser":"An introduction to Urban Studies and to the city of Providence, this first year seminar explores from an interdisciplinary perspective how cities are broadly conceptualized and studied. Students then focus on urban dwelling, using Providence as a first-hand case study. We comprehensively examine urban life and change, attending to urban history, the diverse configurations of people and place, social and environmental issues, and urban sustainability. In a lively and varied approach to local learning, course activities include lectures, discussion, reading and writing assignments, films and other media, guest speakers, and excursions to local sites. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS","info":"Rebecca L. Carter (Primary) / URBN 0230 S01 / CRN: 15849","_id":"NJnzdWH18nbRS5rX"}
{"title":"Reactions and Rheology: Chemical and Mechanical Kinetics in Mineral Systems","teaser":"Characterization of atomic diffusion and dislocation motion responsible for chemical and physical reactions and plastic rheology in ionic solids. Topics include: point-defect thermodynamics; atomic diffusion (physical and mathematical); solid-solution formation; solid-state compound formation; dislocation structures; grain boundary structure and chemical segregation; plastic rheology. Recommended three or more of GEOL 1410, GEOL 1420, or ENGN 0410, ENGN 1410, or CHEM 0330, CHEM 1060.  Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Reid F. Cooper (Primary) / GEOL 1960J S01 / CRN: 16742","_id":"NKI8WJObffTsHghb"}
{"title":"Gender and Sexuality in the Modern History of Latin America","teaser":"This seminar explores how gender shaped the political and social history of 19th and 20th century Latin America. Together, we will explore some themes at the center of this growing body of scholarship, such as the role of honor and sexual morality in shaping post-independence Latin American societies, the efforts of states to regulate the family, and the role of gender in the organization of the modern labor force. Throughout the semester, we will discuss the intersections of race, gender and class that are at the heart of changing conceptions of sexual morality and ideals of modern family organization.","info":"Daniel A. Rodriguez (Primary) / HIST 1967Q S01 / CRN: 14938","_id":"NYUGRcETLTa5TPO8"}
{"title":"BEO Capstone I: Entrepreneurship and Technology Management Track","teaser":"The first in a two-semester Capstone required of BEO Tech track seniors. Student teams from Engineering, BEO and other technical and non-technical disciplines form simulated high tech start-up companies working on mentor-defined opportunities.  Concepts reviewed in class include: product commercialization, intellectual property, marketing, product requirements documentation, team building, safety, environmental and legal requirements. BEO Tech track concentrators should complete ENGN 1010 prior to course.  Enrollment is limited. Students must complete formal application (BEO Tech track seniors automatically approved). Project team meetings required outside scheduled lectures.  Non-BEO concentrators require instructor permission. WRIT","info":"Steven F. Petteruti (Primary) / BEO 1930B S01 / CRN: 15105","_id":"NflI9AOMFvypYDzd"}
{"title":"Differential Geometry","teaser":"The study of curves and surfaces in 2- and 3-dimensional Euclidean space using the techniques of differential and integral calculus and linear algebra. Topics include curvature and torsion of curves, Frenet-Serret frames, global properties of closed curves, intrinsic and extrinsic properties of surfaces, Gaussian curvature and mean curvature, geodesics, minimal surfaces, and the Gauss-Bonnet theorem.","info":"Georgios D. Daskalopoulos (Primary) / MATH 1060 S01 / CRN: 15376","_id":"NhxMMq6fNNfrMvIJ"}
{"title":"The Simple Art of Murder","teaser":"A survey of the history of criminal enterprise in American literature. Authors to be considered include Poe, Melville, Hawthorne, Twain, Chandler, Wright, Petry, Highsmith, Millar, Harris, and Mosley. Students who have taken ENGL 0560D may not register for this course. Students should register for ENGL 0100T S01 and may be assigned to conference sections by the instructor during the first week of class.","info":"Drayton Nabers (Primary) / ENGL 0100T S01 / CRN: 15465","_id":"NigA4ndxjPXe5Ntj"}
{"title":"Word, Media, Power in Modern Italy","teaser":"The role of media (print, news, art, music, photography, cinema, radio, television) in shaping national identity, nationalistic agendas, imperial aspirations, democratic revivals and populist consensus in Italy, from the post-Risorgimento age to the Fascist regime, and from the post-WW2 renaissance to the \"decadent\" Berlusconi era. The most influential genres and trends in Italian culture, from opera to futurism, from neo-realist cinema and literature to post-modern fashion and industrial design, will be analyzed against the backdrop of the most important social and political turning points of Italian and European history. Taught in English.","info":"Massimo Riva (Primary) / ITAL 1590 S01 / CRN: 15260","_id":"NjpTBXyyuOW3AvlO"}
{"title":"Inventing America","teaser":"One of the distinguishing features of American literature may be its seemingly constant struggle with the idea of America itself. For what, these authors wonder, does/should America stand? We will examine the rhetorical battles waged in some major works over the meaning and/or meanings of America’s national identity. Authors may include Franklin, Hawthorne, and Fitzgerald.  Limited to 20 first-year students. Instructor permission required. FYS LILE WRIT","info":"James F. Egan (Primary) / ENGL 0150J S01 / CRN: 15461","_id":"Nv96aSDT5zyiSGFW"}
{"title":"Political Theater","teaser":"Politics and theater share a long and twisted history. For centuries, their relation was dominated by countless reinterpretations of Aristotle’s definitions of tragedy in his Poetics that hinged on three key terms: representation, identification, and purification. This seminar examines the work of four of the 20th century’s most extreme writers of dramatic prose experimenting with non-Aristotelian forms of theater – from the absurd to the epic –and thus dealing with unprecedented notions of political life. Readings include dialogues, sound-recordings, and films by Karl Valentin; Bertolt Brecht’s Die Maßnahme; Samuel Beckett’s Waiting for Godot; and Heiner Müller’s Mauser. Taught in German.","info":"Thomas G. Schestag (Primary) / GRMN 1340O S01 / CRN: 15968","_id":"NxRaolQp4eNAQq70"}
{"title":"Historical Crossings: Empires and Modernity","teaser":"“Historical crossings” is a rough translation of histoire croisée, referring to global configurations of events and a shared history, rather than to a traditional comparative history. This Seminar is designed to be the cornerstone of the M.A. program. It will not serve as a traditional historical methods course but instead focus on training students to read and think on various scales of historical analysis—from cross-cultural and trans-geographic to the granularity of social and cultural specificity, requiring students to think both globally and locally and introducing them to an advanced level of historical inquiry, debate, and exploration.","info":"Harold J. Cook (Primary) / HIST 2935 S01 / CRN: 15645","_id":"NzU6bPlYoVvdkhiO"}
{"title":"Age of Augustus: Topography, Architecture, and Politics","teaser":"Augustus Caesar boasted that he had found Rome a city in brick, but left it in marble. This course explores the transformation of Rome from an unadorned village to the capital of an empire. Was Rome's first emperor trying to fashion himself a Hellenistic monarch on the model of Alexander and his successors? Was he simply operating within republican traditions, which had been established through centuries of aristocratic competition at Rome? Our source materials will include ancient works of art and architecture, literary accounts, maps, and critical urban theory.","info":"Lisa M. Mignone (Primary) / CLAS 1120T S01 / CRN: 15941","_id":"O0ALWqUieieg0jQO"}
{"title":"Numerical Solution of Partial Differential Equations I","teaser":"Finite difference methods for solving time-dependent initial value problems of partial differential equations. Fundamental concepts of consistency, accuracy, stability and convergence of finite difference methods will be covered. Associated well-posedness theory for linear time-dependent PDEs will also be covered. Some knowledge of computer programming expected.","info":"Chi-Wang Shu (Primary) / APMA 2550 S01 / CRN: 15809","_id":"OAqnuz4slJaqL1jM"}
{"title":"Making Connections: The Environmental Policy Process","teaser":"The diminishing quantity and quality of the resources of the Earth carries profound implications for the fulfillment of human rights and aspirations. But even as we understand better the intrinsic interdependencies between humans and the environment, policy gridlock persists. Indeed, the findings of fundamental environmental science are regularly contested on political grounds. The purpose of this course is to learn how to apply knowledge to map the relevant policy context in environmental issues, and to develop the tools and approaches to address any problem of decision in the environmental arena more creatively, effectively, and responsibly. Enrollment limited to 20. WRIT","info":"Amanda Lynch (Primary) / ENVS 1615 S01 / CRN: 16513","_id":"OBMU8GkzucJjkJJo"}
{"title":"Short Forms: Major Works in a Minor Key","teaser":"This course will explore short masterworks by major Latin American writers of the twentieth century and beyond (Borges, Onetti, Cortázar, García Márquez, Bolaño, Aira, Zambra and others) alongside some of their major influences (e.g. Poe, Conan Doyle, Hemingway, Faulkner), with side-trips into the work of contemporary writers on whom they leave their own imprint. Readings will primarily involve short stories, but will also include novellas, poems, films, visual art, and music. Reading in Spanish, with discussion in English.","info":"Michelle Clayton (Primary) / HISP 1330Q S01 / CRN: 16668","_id":"OBnUALKOXJXmxtn7"}
{"title":"Graduate Poetry","teaser":"Advanced practice of the art: a writing seminar, limited to graduate students in Literary Arts. Emphasis is placed on developing a better understanding of the creative process, strategies and forms. Written permission required. S/NC.","info":"Forrest Gander (Primary) / LITR 2010B S01 / CRN: 15554","_id":"OE8Oe7QBdZ8lj3e0"}
{"title":"The Museum and the Photograph","teaser":"This graduate seminar examines the relationship between two rapidly evolving modern institutions: the history of photography and the modern art museum.  Through readings, discussions, and independent research, we will look at how the history of photography has been affected by its unique association with the museum, and what this means for it as a field of intellectual inquiry.  Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"Douglas R. Nickel (Primary) / HIAA 2860A S01 / CRN: 14854","_id":"OJzeHoh7XyIuycrJ"}
{"title":"North Korea: Past, Present, Future","teaser":"Typically, the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea (DPRK) is portrayed as a rogue nation ruled by the Kim family, autocrats who are either “mad” or “bad” and whose policies have traumatized the country’s citizens, wrecked the economy, and threatened nuclear disaster on South Korea, East Asia, even the USA.  This course moves beyond such stereotypes to examine the interconnected political, economic, and cultural transformations of the DPRK from 1945 to the present.  Also included are the lived experiences of the Korean people, the plight of refugees, and the question of unification with South Korea.","info":"James L. McClain (Primary) / HIST 1961I S01 / CRN: 16550","_id":"OKFgTMlrYOKi6tnU"}
{"title":"Analysis of Teaching: English","teaser":"S/NC.","info":"Laura A. Snyder (Primary) / EDUC 1080A S01 / CRN: 14639","_id":"OOgZPSv3jNvzQ8W0"}
{"title":"Methods of Applied Mathematics III, IV","teaser":"Mathematical methods based on functions of a complex variable. Fournier series and its applications to the solution of one-dimensional heat conduction equations and vibrating strings. Series solution and special functions. Vibrating membrance. Sturm-Liouville problem and eigenfunction expansions.  Fournier transform and wave propagations.","info":"APMA 1330 S01 / CRN: 15800","_id":"OOk70AwK6nWz0xkc"}
{"title":"Theory of Religion","teaser":"Critical examination of major approaches to the study of religion, especially those of the anthropology and the history of religions, with attention to issues in current debate.","info":"Stephen S. Bush (Primary) / RELS 2000 S01 / CRN: 15828","_id":"OX140DgD1Olq5GIm"}
{"title":"Advanced Quantum Mechanics","teaser":"No description available.","info":"PHYS 2070 S01 / CRN: 15254","_id":"OaotTTwGNkB6aJqr"}
{"title":"Multimedia Nonfiction","teaser":"In this class students will write and explore essays that focus on the meaningful integration of images, videos, and web tools with traditional nonfiction subgenres. No previous digital experience is necessary. Enrollment limited to 17. Writing sample required. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval.  S/NC.","info":"Michael H. Stewart (Primary) / ENGL 1050J S01 / CRN: 15396","_id":"OdQM3GotOW5ctejC"}
{"title":"Introduction to the Theory and Analysis of Modern Culture and Media","teaser":"An introduction to critical theory, cultural studies, and media analysis that addresses print, photography, film, television, and digital media.  We will examine these media in relationship to influential theoretical approaches such as structuralism and post-structuralism, ideological analysis and psychoanalysis,  feminist and queer theory, critical race theory and theories of post-colonialism and globality, and media and technology studies. LILE WRIT","info":"MCM 0110 C01 / CRN: 14877","_id":"Oe8VBjcszY6UyGOm"}
{"title":"Computational Cognitive Neuroscience","teaser":"We explore neural network models that bridge the gap between biology and cognition. Begins with basic biological and computational properties of individual neurons and networks of neurons. Examines specialized functions of various brain systems (e.g., parietal cortex, frontal cortex, hippocampus, ganglia) and their involvement in various phenomena, including perception, attention, memory, language and higher-level cognition. Includes a lab component in which students get hands on experience with graphical neural network software, allowing deeper appreciation for how these systems work. Prerequisites: CLPS 0020 (COGS 0010) or CLPS 0200 (COGS 0420); and CLPS 0410 (PSYC 0750) or NEUR 0010.","info":"Michael J. Frank (Primary) / CLPS 1492 S01 / CRN: 15767","_id":"Oj5dkzupd0dWQMMw"}
{"title":"Toward a Global Late Antiquity:200-800 CE","teaser":"Competing empires, the division of the eastern and western halves of Roman territory; long distance trade, the rise of monotheism, the spread of Buddhism:  how did these factors affect the art and architecture associated with the Roman west, Constantinople, Ctesiphon, Alexandria, the Han Dynasty capitals, and Gandhara?  This course takes an expanded view of Late Antiquity, extending beyond typical that associate the period with the post-classical west, to explore the dynamic creativity and intercultural connectivity of an era once considered a \"Dark Age\" in a world history. WRIT","info":"Anne Chen (Primary) / HIAA 0321 S01 / CRN: 16275","_id":"OjDe75BRmThQ2TkJ"}
{"title":"The Panorama and 19th-Century Visual Culture (ITAL 1340)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ITAL 1340 (CRN 15261).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"MCM 1504H S01 / CRN: 16321","_id":"OlkI2JpbK2ZAU2fB"}
{"title":"Portuguese Stylistics: Advanced Language Study and Creative Writing","teaser":"An intensive writing course covering basic genres: letter, short essay, diary, short story, and poetry. Students write five pages per week on five different preassigned topics that range over a wide variety of subjects. Exposes students to idiomatic and stylistic writing in a multitude of areas. In class, students read and comment on each other's writings. Enrollment limited to 20. Conducted in Portuguese. WRIT","info":"Leonor Simas-Almeida (Primary) / POBS 1030 S01 / CRN: 15540","_id":"Oo3koFQQk6yUHobA"}
{"title":"Genetics","teaser":"Genetic phenomena at the molecular, cellular, organismal, and population levels. Topics include transmission of genes and chromosomes, mutation, structure and regulation of the expression of the genetic material, elements of genetic engineering, and evolutionary genetics. One laboratory session and one discussion session per week. (Students should not plan to take BIOL 0470 after 1540.) Expected: BIOL 0200 (or equivalent placement).  Students will be assigned to Lab sections the first week of class.","info":"Jody Hall (Primary) / BIOL 0470 L01 / CRN: 14704","_id":"OpgjQqdMcXXLOk6r"}
{"title":"Synthetic Biological Systems","teaser":"A multidisciplinary course that combines science and engineering providing a solid foundation in a cutting edge field of biological engineering. Synthetic biology is a mixture of biology, chemistry, engineering, genetic engineering and biophysics. It builds on recent work in systems biology which involves the modeling of biological systems, but goes further in that it involves the construction and standardization of biological parts, that fit together to form more complex systems. Expected: at least four courses beyond BIOL 0200, CHEM 0330, PHYS 0300, ENGN 0300, MATH 0900, or CSCI 0040.","info":"Gary M. Wessel (Primary) / BIOL 1210 S01 / CRN: 14782","_id":"OsUwv28utCToPi9e"}
{"title":"Good Government","teaser":"An applied ethics course specifically for students with backgrounds in Public Policy, it will emphasize the primary themes of good government: openness, deliberation, and integrity. Students will develop an essay on good government and do research for case studies of ethical dilemmas involving public servants. Prerequisite: PLCY 0100 (or equivalent). Instructor permission required. This course satisfies the American Institutions requirement.","info":"Ross E. Cheit (Primary) / PLCY 1700T S01 / CRN: 15118","_id":"OsWYSdozmJaDK9IE"}
{"title":"The Ecology and Evolution of Infectious Disease","teaser":"We will survey the diverse biology of microbes responsible for human infectious disease, develop and apply ecological and evolutionary theory to infectious microbes, and provide practical experience interpreting and synthesizing the peer-reviewed scientific literature. The discovery of infectious microbes, the role of genetic novelty, population structure and transmission mode, and the influence of clinical therapies and host immune response will be considered. Evaluation will be based on preparation, participation, weekly student presentations, brief weekly written assignments, a midterm and a final. Expected: BIOL 0200 or equivalent. Enrollment limited to 25 first year students and sophomores.  LILE","info":"Daniel M. Weinreich (Primary) / BIOL 0380 S01 / CRN: 14746","_id":"OxQTHcYxGVnxAwTE"}
{"title":"Approaches to Narrative","teaser":"A production seminar for intermediate to advanced students in film and/or video production. Students complete a substantial media project in the course of the semester. Class meetings will focus on close readings and critical feedback of students' work during all phases of production. Texts related to narrative theory and production will be discussed. Screenings of exemplary works will supplement the class. Class members should have completed at least one time-based media class. Students are expected to be competent technically. An application will be completed during the first class session and the  final class list will be determined after this meeting, with permission of the instructor. S/NC","info":"MCM 1700B F01 / CRN: 14899","_id":"Oy55KlAao3JCxDdT"}
{"title":"Selected Topics in Global Health Economics","teaser":"This course will survey selected topics in global health economics. It is designed to introduce students to specific issues, theory and practice of health economics at the global level. The first part of the course will survey research papers on econometric methods in global health including: field experiments, instrumental variables, propensity score matching and regression discontinuity.  The second part will discuss current topics such as: conditional economic incentives for providers and consumers, social health insurance, public goods, and externalities. Prerequisites: PHP 2511 and ECON 1110, or equivalent. Enrollment limited to 8 graduate students. Instructor permission required.","info":"Omar Galarraga (Primary) / PHP 2480 S01 / CRN: 16678","_id":"Oyq2ydIGQ363Rkap"}
{"title":"Advanced Quantitative Methods in Epidemiologic Research","teaser":"This course provides students with conceptual and quantitative tools based on counterfactual theory to make causal inference using data obtained from observational studies. Causal diagrams will be used to provide alternative definitions of and inform correcting for common biases. Non-, semi-, and fully parametric methods for addressing these biases will be discussed. These methods include standard regression, instrumental variables, propensity scores, inverse probability weighting, and marginal structural models. Settings when such methods may not be appropriate will be emphasized. Prerequisite: PHP 2200 and 2511; or PHP 2200 and 2508; or instructor permission. Enrollment limited to 25 graduate students.","info":"Chanelle J. Howe (Primary) / PHP 2250 S01 / CRN: 16681","_id":"P1ppGhDckUcSBcIv"}
{"title":"American Sign Language III","teaser":"Explores sociolinguistic aspects of ASL within the Deaf cultural context. Focuses on classifiers, linguistic principles related to dialogues and storytelling techniques (e.g., role-shifting, narrative structure). Deaf culture is experienced by attending events and by voluntary service to the Deaf community. Prerequisite SIGN 0200 or placement interview.","info":"Timothy B. Riker (Primary) / SIGN 0300 S01 / CRN: 14859","_id":"P4l0z52XSs9Rhkvs"}
{"title":"Music and Identity","teaser":"From 19th-century European nationalism to 20th-century American multiculturalism, people have used music to affirm their identities. Drawing on anthropological and sociological theory, we examine the variety of connections between music and identity in several case studies. We consider the possible contributions of music to cross- cultural understanding, and discuss the ethics of musical border- crossing.","info":"Marc A. Perlman (Primary) / MUSC 2070 S01 / CRN: 16006","_id":"PAd7pxxNVphuI39z"}
{"title":"Chorus","teaser":"Half credit each semester. A practical study of choral literature, techniques, and performance practice from Gregorian chant to the present, offered through rehearsals, sectionals, and performance. Enrollment is by audition, based on voice quality, experience, and music-reading ability. Instructor permission required.","info":"Louis Frederick Jodry (Primary) / MUSC 0600 S01 / CRN: 16027","_id":"PBLjcV4cB9eQjBaq"}
{"title":"Afro Latin Americans and Blackness in the Americas","teaser":"This course focuses on the position of Blacks in the national histories and societies of Latin America from slavery to the present-day.  Emphasis is on a multidisciplinary engagement with issues and the exposure of students to the critical discussion of national images and realities about blackness and Africa-descended institutions and practices.  The role of racial issues in national and transnational encounters and the consequences of migration of people and ideas within the hemisphere are explored. DPLL","info":"Anani Dzidzienyo (Primary) / AFRI 0210 S01 / CRN: 16228","_id":"PDZtHAlnKO1Ztp4S"}
{"title":"War, Anti-War, Postwar: Culture and Contestation in the Americas","teaser":"This course addresses the relationship among language, war and the arts from the mid-twentieth century on. Even as armies engage in combat around the globe, the term \"war\" legitimates a much broader spectrum of situations, lending them the structure of organized hostility and the moral opposition of right to wrong.  From the \"Cold War\" to the \"War on Terror\", to Argentina's \"Dirty War\" and Cuba's \"War on Imperialism\", literature, cinema, visual arts and community-based projects have responded to real and rhetorical declarations of \"war.\" Drawing from U.S. and Latin American contexts, we will explore a range of responses and challenges. DPLL","info":"Esther K. Whitfield (Primary) / COLT 1812V S01 / CRN: 16882","_id":"PI3o9nvFUpRZy56N"}
{"title":"Workshop for Potential Literature","teaser":"A novel without the letter \"E\", 100,000-billion sonnets by permutation and texts that take the shape of a Mobius-Strip-- all this time and more, as workshop participants try their hands in writing in response to problems created by and inspired by a group of writers engaged in strange constraints and procedures. Instructor permission required. S/NC. WRIT\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Peter Gale Nelson (Primary) / LITR 1110N S01 / CRN: 15557","_id":"PLDBptWgsxa7PErh"}
{"title":"The History of Greece from Archaic Times to the Death of Alexander","teaser":"A detailed examination of the history of the Greeks-political, economic, and social-from Homer's time to the establishment of the Hellenistic monarchies by the successors of Alexander the Great. The ancient sources are closely and critically studied (in translation).","info":"Graham J. Oliver (Primary) / CLAS 1210 S01 / CRN: 16175","_id":"PNBJvk628fgrg1RD"}
{"title":"Quantum Mechanics","teaser":"Semester I: Time independent quantum mechanics and its application to atomic and molecular problems. Discussions of modern theories of electronic structure, chemical bonding, and molecular spectroscopy. Prerequisite: CHEM 1140 or equivalent.","info":"Gerald J. Diebold (Primary) / CHEM 2770 S01 / CRN: 14911","_id":"PO7ywPJfXAYJk9Yg"}
{"title":"Restoration Ecology","teaser":"This intermediate-level, writing intensive course will enable students to master fundamental ecological concepts and understand how this knowledge can be used to inform ecological restoration and stewardship, particularly in urbanized coastal areas of New England. Through case studies, discussions and field trips to active restoration sites, students will deepen their scientific knowledge and experience the challenges and opportunities of ecological restoration.  This course is particularly appropriate for students interested in engaged research as they will meet and collaborate with environmental professionals. Course capped at 15 - admission by application only. Contact Prof. Leslie, Heather_Leslie@brown.edu by May 1, 2015 to apply. Pre-requisite: BIOL 0200 or equivalent. WRIT\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Heather M. Leslie (Primary) / ENVS 0460 S01 / CRN: 16667","_id":"POtL0GP8qOuw73gr"}
{"title":"Introduction to Computer Graphics","teaser":"Fundamental concepts in 2D and 3D computer graphics, e.g., 2D raster graphics techniques, simple image processing, and user interface design. Focuses on geometric transformations, and 3D modeling, viewing and rendering. A sequence of assignments in C++ culminates in a simple geometric modeler and ray tracer. Prerequisite: CSCI 0160, CSCI 0180, or CSCI 0190.   Some knowledge of basic linear algebra is helpful but not required.  Strong object-oriented programming ability (e.g., in C++, Java or Python) is required.","info":"Andries van Dam (Primary) / CSCI 1230 S01 / CRN: 15982","_id":"PU3rxT8qUREUNIb6"}
{"title":"Health, Hunger and the Household in Developing Countries","teaser":"Microeconomic analysis of household behavior in low income societies emphasizing the economic determinants of health and nutrition and the evaluation of policy. The relationship among health, nutrition, fertility, savings, schooling, labor productivity, wage determination, and gender-based inequality. Emphasizes theoretically-based empirical research. Prerequisite: ECON 1110 or 1130, ECON 1620. Enrollment limited to 30.","info":"Andrew D. Foster (Primary) / ECON 1530 S01 / CRN: 15869","_id":"PVLwbEDtSMGPkyYK"}
{"title":"Technologies of/and the Body: Mediated Visions (GNSS 1720)","teaser":"Interested students must register for GNSS 1720 (CRN 16770).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"MCM 1504V S01 / CRN: 16870","_id":"PW03MvY7iKX6leOh"}
{"title":"BEO Capstone I: Organizational Studies Track","teaser":"The first in a two-semester Capstone for BEO Organizational Studies track seniors, open to all BEO seniors. Capstone builds upon concepts covered in BEO courses, specifically concepts from SOC 1311 and 1315.  Students will synthesize knowledge at several levels: across disciplines, across theoretical understanding and practical application, and across private and public sector experiences of entrepreneurship and innovation.  Students will be organized into client-mentored teams for social entrepreneurship and social innovation projects. BEO 1930A (fall) required; 1940A (spring) strongly advised for all Organizational Studies track seniors. Application required to match students to projects.  Project team meetings required outside scheduled lectures. WRIT","info":"Mary L. Fennell (Primary) / BEO 1930A S01 / CRN: 15104","_id":"PZh23qigejE9Y8eU"}
{"title":"Applied Research Methods for Economists","teaser":"This class will cover the basics of applied research in economics. We will cover how we use economic theory to formulate a hypothesis to test and how we use data to test our hypothesis. As part of the coursework, students will be exposed to topics across multiple fields of applied economic research (eg, health, labor, political economy, urban economics, development, etc) that can be explored in greater detail in more advanced classes.\nStudents will read and discuss papers published in professional journals and perform data analysis as part of the course requirements.  Prerequisites: ECON 1110 or 1130; and ECON 1620 or 1630.","info":"Daniel C. I. Bjorkegren (Primary) / ECON 1629 L01 / CRN: 15178","_id":"PbK5zrtehK0OmesF"}
{"title":"Senior Honors Seminar in English","teaser":"Weekly seminar led by the Advisor of Honors in English. Introduces students to sustained literary-critical research and writing skills necessary to successful completion of the senior thesis. Particular attention to efficient ways of developing literary-critical projects, as well as evaluating, incorporating, and documenting secondary sources.  Enrollment limited to English concentrators whose applications to the Honors in English program have been accepted. Permission should be obtained from the Honors Advisor in English. S/NC","info":"E. Tamar Katz (Primary) / ENGL 1991 S01 / CRN: 15505","_id":"PkgyPQDXRmAJnx7C"}
{"title":"Physics as Metaphysics","teaser":"Philosophers and physicists often investigate similar topics and struggle with similar methodological concerns: What is the nature of time and space? What are the fundamental constituents of the world? Is a simpler theory more likely to be true? When are we allowed to posit new fundamental laws? In this course we will investigate the ways in which philosophers can learn from physicists, and vice-versa, in their shared investigation of an overlapping subject matter. No previous experience with physics required.","info":"Nina R. Emery (Primary) / PHIL 2010B S01 / CRN: 15204","_id":"PncOYyr2MAOaRZM8"}
{"title":"Biomedical Engineering Design, Research and Modeling","teaser":"This course introduces students to design, modeling and analysis of biological systems. The first portion of the course focuses on linear systems. Research projects in design will be analyzed. The course also introduces students to the Matlab programming language, which allows them to implement the design models discussed in class. For seniors only.","info":"Anubhav Tripathi (Primary) / ENGN 1930L S01 / CRN: 16456","_id":"PpZwP9v1fyByVcOz"}
{"title":"Engaged Climate Policy at the UN Climate Change Talks","teaser":"Twelve undergraduate students will study a group of core readings, conduct independent and group projects, and attend the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change's (UNFCCC) 21st Conference of the Parties (COP21) in Paris, France in early December, 2015. Students will critically analyze contemporary political events; develop and addresses pertinent research questions; engage with and interview experts in the field; craft policy-relevant and empirically grounded publications; and develop experience in using social media. Team-based research may be presented at the climate negotiations in Paris at an official side event.  Contact J. Timmons Roberts for an application - j_timmons_roberts@brown.edu.","info":"J. Timmons Roberts (Primary) / ENVS 1575 S01 / CRN: 16254","_id":"PvqIzVkE9FSRjFnc"}
{"title":"The Racial Lives of Affect","teaser":"This course explores both dominant and emergent theoretical paradigms that anatomize the affective dimensions of racialized subjectivity in the United States from the 19th-century to the present. We begin with African American and Asian American works that render the violence of racism and empire as gendered traumas. We then address works that examine the more quotidian textures of racialized embodied feeling. Enrollment limited to 15.","info":"Daniel Kim (Primary) / ENGL 2761F S01 / CRN: 15455","_id":"Q1jXrbfki7IuXHFm"}
{"title":"Translating Korean: Fiction, Poetry, Film and K-Pop (EAST 1950W)","teaser":"Interested students must register for EAST 1950W (CRN 15306).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"KREA 1950W S01 / CRN: 16631","_id":"Q1vvZPpJOI5AoWVp"}
{"title":"Making America Modern","teaser":"This course surveys a crucial period in American history between the end of Reconstruction and the beginning of World War I. During this time, the United States transitioned from a relatively fragmented, traditional, and largely agricultural society into one that was remarkably diverse, increasingly urban, and highly industrialized. In surveying this important transitional period, we will pay particular attention to far-reaching changes in the nation's business and economic life, its social movements, as well as its cultural developments, all with an eye to understanding how the United States became one of the world's most commanding economic, political, and cultural powers.","info":"Elizabeth E Searcy (Primary) / HIST 1505 S01 / CRN: 14947","_id":"Q7w6F69UTMp9oTII"}
{"title":"Corporate Governance and Management","teaser":"A corporation's economic success depends on access to human capital and other resources, effective management of these resources, and a governance system that ensures effective decision making. The course offers policy prescriptions in economic incentives and regulatory rules that attempt to align management with investors. Prerequisites: ECON 1110 or 1130; and ECON 1620 or 1630 or APMA 1650; and ECON 1720; and ECON 0710. Enrollment limited to 40.","info":"ECON 1790 S01 / CRN: 15864","_id":"Q99QFC8ex4tbHVhC"}
{"title":"Mathematical and Computational Earth Sciences","teaser":"For graduate students interested in  quantitative study of the Earth in geological, physical, or\n engineering sciences. Mathematical topics to be introduced include tensor analysis, asymptotic and per\nturbation analysis of differential equations, numerical integration of differential equations, basis functions\n and pattern recognition, fractals and multifractals, and statistics. Applications will vary by offering, but\n examples include: statistics of turbulence and earthquakes, advection-reaction-diffusion systems, boundary layers, development of shocks and singularities, climate change, carbon sensitivity, and dimensional\n reduction of geophysical data. Intensive review of introductory mathematical methods\n through leading discussions in a lower level class.  Earth, fluid, or solid science background recommended.","info":"GEOL 2300 L01 / CRN: 16827","_id":"QAhRw9RGHNhNFkjW"}
{"title":"American Sign Language I, II","teaser":"Introduces basic ASL conversation. Features core vocabulary, common signing phrases, non-manual components (facial expression, body postures), signing space, fingerspelling, numbers, loan signs, cultural protocols, rules of ASL grammar and structure. Deaf cultural behavior is introduced in the classroom and through readings, videotapes, and Deaf community events. This is the first half of a year-long course whose first semester grade is normally a temporary one. Neither semester may be elected independently without special written permission. The final grade at the end of the course work in SIGN 0200 covers the entire year and is recorded as the final grade for both semesters.","info":"Timothy B. Riker (Primary) / SIGN 0100 S01 / CRN: 14857","_id":"QKG2PJQl14FlKowx"}
{"title":"Advanced Beginning Japanese","teaser":"Designed for those who have had high-school Japanese or other Japanese language experience. An opportunity to organize previous knowledge of Japanese and develop a firm basis of spoken and written Japanese. Prerequisite: Reading and writing knowledge of Hiragana, Katakana, and some Kanji. Placement test required. This is the first half of a year-long course whose first semester grade is normally a temporary one. Neither semester may be elected independently without special written permission. The final grade submitted at the end of the course work in JAPN 0250 covers the entire year and is recorded as the final grade for both semesters. The East Asian Studies department wishes to provide language instruction to all interested students. If you are unable to register for this course due to enrollment limits but are dedicated to learning Japanese, please contact the instructor via email.","info":"Kikuko Yamashita (Primary) / JAPN 0150 S01 / CRN: 14966","_id":"QLELaLlpOlsnNXmA"}
{"title":"Research Essay: Investigative Nonfiction","teaser":"This class is founded on the idea that research is a creative act in and of itself. Using a series of real-world drills we will explore the local archives, court documents, libraries, and electronic resources that are essential to investigative nonfiction. Additionally, we will look at a number of contemporary texts to examine how scholars, professional writers and journalists have integrated their research into their writing. Enrollment limited to 17. Writing sample may be required. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC.","info":"Michael H. Stewart (Primary) / ENGL 1030B S01 / CRN: 15530","_id":"QMLaBRRgYYEROfBz"}
{"title":"The Craft of Teaching","teaser":"What is the \"craft of teaching\"? A wide variety of texts are used to investigate the complexity of teaching and learning. Considering current problems as well as reform initiatives, we examine teaching and learning in America from the perspectives of history, public policy, critical theory, sociology, and the arts. Weekly journals and reading critiques; final portfolio presented to the class.","info":"Eric H. Shed (Primary) / EDUC 1010 S01 / CRN: 14649","_id":"QNeTFgTH7nIl5AAO"}
{"title":"El amor en español","teaser":"This course will visit a series of famous, colorful and controversial couples (novios, esposos y amantes) from the Hispanic culture. From Latin America we plan to study the relationship between Frida Khalo and Diego Rivera, Perón y Evita, and also books by Pablo Neruda and contemporary authors; and we will also discuss the possible influence of the epistolary exchange between the ill-fated lovers Abelard and Eloise on late medieval Spanish sentimental fiction (San Pedro`s Arnalte y Lucenda,  Flores' Grisel y Mirabella and Rojas' Comedia de Calisto y Melibea. Taught in Spanish.","info":"Mercedes Vaquero (Primary) / HISP 1330T S01 / CRN: 15913","_id":"QNi7AvlOmTdrWEaC"}
{"title":"Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience","teaser":"This course will examine fundamental topics in cognitive development from the point of view of the developing brain. Topics of interest will include developing abilities in perception, attention, action, object concepts, memory, learning, planning, language, and social cognition. Typical and atypical brain development will be considered. Prerequisite: One of CLPS 0600 (PSYC 0810), CLPS 0610 (COGS 0630), EDUC 0800, or permission of the instructor. Enrollment limited to 40.","info":"Dima Amso (Primary) / CLPS 1620 S01 / CRN: 15718","_id":"QUdaDzzAR17eJfUF"}
{"title":"Proseminar in International Relations","teaser":"Surveys the main theoretical trajectories and intellectual disagreements that define International Relations as a discipline today. Positions examined include varieties of rationalism and constructivism; realism-liberalism-sociological approaches; and systemic and subsystemic theories. Also considers debates about the contours of contemporary world  politics, America and the world, moral issues, and the links between theory and policy. Enrollment limited to 14. Not open to undergraduates.","info":"Jeffrey D. Colgan (Primary) / POLS 2130 S01 / CRN: 15049","_id":"QW0ih12YudnrOCHQ"}
{"title":"Etiology of Substance Use Disorders","teaser":"This course will help students become familiar with behavioral, genetic, neurobiological, and cultural factors related to the onset and course of substance use disorders. In addition to review of specific theories, empirical evidence supporting models will be covered as will the integration of evidence across models. Priority will be given to postdoctoral fellows.","info":"Peter M. Monti (Primary) / PHP 2370 S01 / CRN: 15894","_id":"QXQUVsy1J1060LDx"}
{"title":"Linear and Generalized Linear Models","teaser":"This course will focus on the theory and applications of linear models for continuous responses. Linear models deal with continuously distributed outcomes and assume that the outcomes are linear combinations of observed predictor variables and unknown parameters, to which independently distributed errors are added. Topics include matrix algebra, multivariate normal theory, estimation and inference for linear models, and model diagnostics.  Prerequisites: APMA 1650 or 1660, or taking PHP 2520 concurrently. \nNote: The course will cover fundamental and advanced topics in linear models, and concepts related to the generalized linear models will not be covered during the course.","info":"PHP 2601 S01 / CRN: 16778","_id":"Qc16bziN4T21EvzS"}
{"title":"Analysis of Teaching: Science","teaser":"S/NC.","info":"Daniel J. Bisaccio (Primary) / EDUC 1080C S01 / CRN: 14657","_id":"QfNn3a9O1tpy3Gl5"}
{"title":"Workshop in Econometrics","teaser":"No description available.","info":"ECON 2950 S01 / CRN: 16573","_id":"QmEugZpZKdf8Ijc1"}
{"title":"Methods for Interdisciplinary Environmental Research","teaser":"This course provides an introduction to a wide range of research approaches in the social and environmental sciences. We will cover the epistemological and theoretical foundations of various research approaches and discuss implications of these foundations for what research questions are answerable and what evidence one can bring to bear to answer such questions. By the end of the semester, students will be able to write a clear and answerable research question, and know what methods are appropriate to use to answer such a question. Enrollment limited to ENVS Juniors.  ENVS seniors must receive instructor override from Professor VanWey, leah_vanwey@brown.edu.\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Leah K. Vanwey (Primary) / ENVS 1920 S01 / CRN: 15681","_id":"QmmsyOoZhImcLT7y"}
{"title":"Atomistic Reaction Engineering","teaser":"Covers the principles of operation of heterogeneous catalysis and advanced reaction engineering with an emphasis on catalysis theory. Includes electronic structure calculations, linear scaling relations, free energy relations, surface reactivity, rate theory, and electrocatalytic concepts. Applications of study in this course will focus on catalysts for energy conversion. Students should have a background in chemical reactions and thermodynamics.","info":"Andrew A. Peterson (Primary) / ENGN 2770 S01 / CRN: 16923","_id":"QsFyNUEoOSornwEZ"}
{"title":"On the Sublime","teaser":"Survey of major theories of the sublime from antiquity to modern times, with emphasis on German, British, and French texts from the 18th to 20th centuries. Authors to be read include Longinus, Immanuel Kant, Edmund Burke, Jean-Francois Lyotard, and Neil Hertz. Readings and discussions in English, with optional readings in original languages provided. Open to seniors with instructor's permission.","info":"Zachary Sng (Primary) / GRMN 2660A S01 / CRN: 15818","_id":"QuLmLNGgv95tByyL"}
{"title":"Race, Difference and Biomedical Research: Historical Considerations","teaser":"This advanced seminar places the current debate over race, health, and genetics in historical context. An overarching goal is to understand how the social world informs the scientific questions we ask, design of research studies, and interpretation of findings. How have the theories and practices of biomedical science and technology produced knowledge of “race” and racial difference historically? How does race relate to gender and class? What are the implications of this debate for understanding health inequality? Previous coursework in Africana Studies, biomedical science, history of science, and/or science and technology studies preferred.  Enrollment limited to 20; instructor permission. WRIT","info":"Lundy Braun (Primary) / BIOL 1920D S01 / CRN: 15124","_id":"QugMQ0qUdMEpsgXY"}
{"title":"Race and Visual Culture","teaser":"This is a sophomore seminar on race and visual media, including everything from high art on canvas to lowbrow film, from the comic book superhero Blank Panther to the Black Panther Party, from the avant-garde to the burlesque, from the web to graffiti to homemade t-shirts. People who sign up for the class should be prepared to read a lot and talk a lot, to regularly get to the RISD museum, to watch a lot of stuff on OCRA, and to maybe take a field trip or two to Boston's MFA and some similar sort of place. Curiosity is required. SOPH","info":"Matthew Guterl (Primary) / AFRI 1020E S01 / CRN: 16249","_id":"QyoVKztGj5wrb86z"}
{"title":"Afro-Caribbean Philosophy","teaser":"An introduction to the field of Afro-Caribbean philosophy. The first half focuses on the history of the field, identifying its African background and surveying some of its major schools, such as the Afro-Christians, the poeticists, the historicists, and existentialists. The second half consists of a more intensive comparative focus on the ontologies and epistemologies of two of these schools. DPLL LILE","info":"Paget Henry (Primary) / AFRI 1150 S01 / CRN: 16236","_id":"R2efAk1KoQiXYSNk"}
{"title":"The Divina Commedia: Inferno and Purgatorio","teaser":"A close reading of the first two canticles of Dante's poem in the light of contemporary European and American critical interpretations. In Italian. Enrollment limited to 40.","info":"Ronald L. Martinez (Primary) / ITAL 1610 S01 / CRN: 15590","_id":"R7bTA4dVn0pcxRLP"}
{"title":"Student Teaching: Science","teaser":"S/NC.","info":"Daniel J. Bisaccio (Primary) / EDUC 1070C S01 / CRN: 14655","_id":"RCUXgwKdqtnZhJ6u"}
{"title":"Senior Honors Thesis in English","teaser":"Independent research and writing under the direction of a faculty member. Permission should be obtained from the Honors Advisor  in English. Open to senior English concentrators pursuing Honors in English. Instructor permission required.","info":"E. Tamar Katz (Primary) / ENGL 1992 S01 / CRN: 15506","_id":"REe66cCecePqgRiV"}
{"title":"Advanced Thermodynamics","teaser":"Fundamental principles of macroscopic equilibrium thermodynamics. The three laws of thermodynamics, the thermodynamic potentials, temperature scales, heat engines and refrigerators, entropy, kinetic theory, and transport phenomena. Applications to solids, fluids, and magnetic systems; Gibbs relations, first and second order phase traditions, thermal radiation, gas expansions.","info":"Christoph Rose-Petruck (Primary) / CHEM 2010 S01 / CRN: 14834","_id":"RIyQTuE7ZjZrvEny"}
{"title":"Mathematics for Economists","teaser":"Techniques of mathematical analysis useful in economic theory and econometrics. Linear algebra, constrained maximization, difference and differential equations, calculus of variations.","info":"James D Campbell (Primary) / ECON 2010 S01 / CRN: 15169","_id":"RJKBsZQ2BMyaKKmr"}
{"title":"Biomolecular Interactions: Health, Disease and Drug Design","teaser":"Interactions between the molecules of life-proteins, RNA, DNA, membrane components-underlie all functions necessary for life. This course focuses on how nature controls these interactions, how these interactions can go awry in disease, and how we can learn the rules of these interactions to design drugs to treat disease. Students will review the physical basis of molecular interactions, learn classic and state-of-the-art high-resolution and high-throughput tools used to measure interaction, and survey the experimental and computational strategies to harness these interactions using a case study in rational drug design. Prerequisite: Introductory Biochemistry (BIOL 0280). Enrollment limited to 20; instructor permission.","info":"Nicolas Lux Fawzi (Primary) / BIOL 1300 S01 / CRN: 14838","_id":"RNJZ4X8jLTx1sIth"}
{"title":"Writing and Speaking French I","teaser":"A four-skill language course that stresses oral interaction in class. Thematic units will focus on songs, poems, a short novel, a graphic novel, films and a longer novel. Activities include a creative project using Comic Life, and a systematic grammar review.  Prerequisite: FREN 0400, FREN 0200 with written permission, or placement.","info":"Youenn Yves J. Kervennic (Primary) / FREN 0500 S01 / CRN: 15577","_id":"RRuW3wrN4QYwx0Nw"}
{"title":"The Medieval King Arthur","teaser":"Where did stories of King Arthur come from and how did they develop in the Middle Ages? We will read the earliest narratives of King Arthur and his companions, in histories and romances from Celtic, Anglo- Norman, and Middle English sources, to examine Arthur's varying personas of warrior, king, lover, thief. Enrollment limited to 20 first-year students. FYS WRIT","info":"Elizabeth Johnson Bryan (Primary) / ENGL 0150C S01 / CRN: 15463","_id":"RSSHa6mNY0EqjUrO"}
{"title":"Aristotle's Metaphysics","teaser":"Aristotle's Metaphysics, books VII, VIII, and IX, investigate the question, what is substance? Do these books revise Aristotle's view in the Categories that individual living things are primary substances? We will work through the central books of the Metaphysics systematically, discussing the nature of Aristotle's project, his essentialism, his views about matter and form, potentiality and actuality, particulars and universals, and attempt to understand his conclusions about substance. Enrollment limited to 40.","info":"Mary Louise G. Gill (Primary) / PHIL 2150G S01 / CRN: 15095","_id":"RSy1YaT643lELleC"}
{"title":"Acting","teaser":"Focus on elements of dramatic analysis and interpretation as applied to the art of acting, and, by extension, directing. Monologues, scene study, and improvisation are basis for comment on individual problems. Reading of dramatic texts and theory. Substantial scene rehearsal commitment necessary. Attendance mandatory. Not open to first-year students. Enrollment limited to 20. Instructor permission required. No permission will be given during pre-registration. S/NC","info":"Kym Moore (Primary) / TAPS 0230 L01 / CRN: 16308","_id":"RY8CUKo3yZyYl8Fv"}
{"title":"Intermediate Russian","teaser":"Continues development of language proficiency while broadening understanding of contemporary Russian culture via readings in literature and history. Expansion of vocabulary for dealing with conversational topics and review of Russian grammar. Features literary and nonliterary readings in Russian, as well as video and computer resources. Five class meetings per week. Prerequisite: RUSS 0110 or RUSS 0200 or RUSS 0250 or placement by exam.  Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"Lynne Debenedette (Primary) / RUSS 0300 S01 / CRN: 15988","_id":"RZw71trsXSxOaN2e"}
{"title":"Introductory Statistics for Social Research","teaser":"Introduction to descriptive and inferential statistics: measures of central tendencies and variability, sampling, tests of significance, correlation, and regression. Also includes the use of computers in data analysis. Knowledge of elementary algebra is assumed. Enrollment is limited to 144 students.","info":"SOC 1100 C01 / CRN: 14957","_id":"RdCIPMhLwrvOcim7"}
{"title":"Proust and Woolf","teaser":"When Virginia Woolf began reading Proust’s In Search of Lost Time in the spring of 1922, she was astonished. As she put it at the time, “scarcely anyone so stimulates the nerves of language in me.” Declaring the book a “miracle,” Woolf describes the experience of reading Proust as a nearly physical pleasure: “one has to put the book down and gasp.” This course will explore the major works of these two eminent modernists, focusing on the surprising ways in which Proust and Woolf play on the \"nerves of language,\" renewing the novel’s capacity to represent sensation, imagination, and environment.","info":"Hannah Freed-Thall (Primary) / COLT 1422C S01 / CRN: 15884","_id":"RdPddYsXFsWxOnii"}
{"title":"New Works/World Traditions","teaser":"From research to performance, develops new dance theater pieces that are rooted in Mande dance and American dance. Includes study with Mande, American, and European artists in building a body of repertory for the concert stage. May be repeated for credit. By audition. S/NC.","info":"Michelle R. Bach-Coulibaly (Primary) / TAPS 1370 S01 / CRN: 16117","_id":"RiPuXK0N0H5QSMd3"}
{"title":"Attic Orators","teaser":"No description available.","info":"Johanna M. Hanink (Primary) / GREK 1080 S01 / CRN: 15943","_id":"RpT3XRfQiOtPdDFP"}
{"title":"Writers on Writing Seminar","teaser":"Offers students an introduction to the study of literature (including works from more than one genre) with special attention given to a writer's way of reading.  This course will include visits to the course by contemporary writers who will read to the class and talk about their work. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS WRIT","info":"Forrest Gander (Primary) / LITR 0710 S01 / CRN: 15556","_id":"RtXwCiYUulBNo9Ni"}
{"title":"Mapping Portuguese-Speaking Cultures: Brazil","teaser":"Selected literary and cultural texts that serve as vehicles for a deeper understanding of Brazilian society. Literary materials will be taken from several genres and periods with special attention to contemporary writings. Other media such as film and music will also be included. Considerable emphasis on strengthening speaking and writing skills. Prerequisite: POBS 0400, placement or instructor's permission. Conducted in Portuguese.","info":"Patricia I. Sobral (Primary) / POBS 0610 S01 / CRN: 15538","_id":"RtdO54s0ITbzVzT4"}
{"title":"Introduction to Phonological Theory (CLPS 1310)","teaser":"Interested students must register for CLPS 1310 (CRN 15758).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"LING 1310 S01 / CRN: 16822","_id":"RtkMZ3vLyzrjAXAe"}
{"title":"Quantum Mechanics A","teaser":"A unified treatment of quanta, photons, electrons, atoms, molecules, matter, nuclei, and particles. Quantum mechanics developed at the start and used to link and explain both the older and newer experimental phenomena of modern physics. Prerequisites: PHYS 0500 and 0560; and MATH 0520, 0540 or PHYS 0720; or approved equivalents.","info":"PHYS 1410 S01 / CRN: 15246","_id":"RtoscgjdjRdsh6Us"}
{"title":"Ethnographic Research Methods","teaser":"To understand the different theoretical assumptions that shape research efforts; to examine how hypotheses and research questions are formulated; and to appreciate the ethical and scientific dimensions of research by hands-on experience in fieldwork projects. Prerequisite: One Anthropology course.","info":"Lina M. Fruzzetti (Primary) / ANTH 1940 S01 / CRN: 16204","_id":"RyAHQMEtdOvMB9gx"}
{"title":"Cancer Biology","teaser":"Provides a conceptual understanding of molecular events underlying development of human cancer. Focused on genetic changes leading to malignant transformation of cells. Covers cell cycle control, DNA damage, mutagenesis, cancer predisposition syndromes, oncogenic viruses, tumor immunology, metastasis, cancer chemotherapy and drug resistance. Lecture plus discussion of primary literature. Prerequisites: BIOL 0280, 0470 or 0500.","info":"Anatoly Zhitkovich (Primary) / BIOL 1290 S01 / CRN: 14731","_id":"Rz8eeSJPvclqZLpD"}
{"title":"Mathematical Statistics I","teaser":"This course presents advanced statistical inference methods. Topics include: foundations of statistical inference and comparison of classical, Bayesian, and minimax approaches, point and set estimation, hypothesis testing, linear regression, linear classification and principal component analysis, MRF, consistency and asymptotic normality of Maximum Likelihood and estimators, statistical inference from noisy or degraded data, and computational methods (E-M Algorithm, Markov Chain Monte Carlo, Bootstrap). Prerequisite: APMA 2630 or equivalent.","info":"Basilis Gidas (Primary) / APMA 2670 S01 / CRN: 15812","_id":"S4b3OBFs979ZOb9A"}
{"title":"Introduction to Quantitative Research Methods","teaser":"This course introduces students to statistical theory and quantitative methods commonly used in political science and public policy. The course focuses on statistical inference using multiple techniques of regression analysis and gives students opportunities to become proficient users of the statistical software package Stata as they develop statistical models and analyze their data. Enrollment limited to 14. Open to graduate students in Political Science and Public Policy only.","info":"Wendy J. Schiller (Primary) / POLS 2580 S01 / CRN: 15053","_id":"SD1CPtq4FNTWLixU"}
{"title":"Sociolinguistics (with Case Studies on the Former USSR and Eastern Europe)","teaser":"This seminar course examines the relationship between language and society: e.g. gender and language, politeness, terms of address, conversational analysis, dialects and language, language variation and social class, language policies and their consequences, language and national/ethnic identity. Case-study readings cover (but are not limited to) linguistic situations in East Europe, Russia, and the former republics of the USSR. Knowledge of Slavic languages not required. Open to advanced undergraduate and graduate students. Freshmen and sophomores who demonstrate their knowledge of the basic notions in linguistics or their familiarity with the former USSR and East Europe may enroll with the instructor’s written permission. Enrollment limited to 20.  DPLL LILE WRIT","info":"Masako Ueda Fidler (Primary) / SLAV 1300 S01 / CRN: 15989","_id":"SEIru6RB7Q1mWBCs"}
{"title":"Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology","teaser":"Fundamental concepts in pharmacology and physiology from the cellular/molecular level to organ systems. Required of first-year graduate students in Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology.","info":"Diana M. Horrigan (Primary) / BIOL 2170 S01 / CRN: 14791","_id":"SFVu581nRLREsMl4"}
{"title":"Principles of Planetary of Climate","teaser":"This course provides the physical building blocks for understanding planetary climate. Topics include thermodynamics applied to planetary atmosphere, basic radiative transfer, energy balance in the atmosphere, and climate variability. In-class exercises and homework problems are designed to strengthen the understanding of basic concepts and to improve problem-solving skills.","info":"Jung-Eun Lee (Primary) / GEOL 1430 S01 / CRN: 16557","_id":"SGfbNsiam6KWTx3R"}
{"title":"Literary Theory I: Continental Aesthetics and the Question of Politics","teaser":"This course examines important moments in the theorization of the relationship between art and politics in the twentieth century. Beginning with the foundation of modern aesthetics in the work of Kant and Hegel, we will go on to consider debates among the Frankfurt School thinkers in the 1940s and 50s (Adorno, Lukács, Brecht, Benjamin); feminist critiques of visuality and perception in the 1980s (Laura Mulvey, Griselda Pollock); and post-structuralist attempts to reconfigure the relationship of aesthetics and politics by figures such as Deleuze, de Man, Derrida and Rancière. Enrollment limited to 15","info":"Marc Redfield (Primary) / COLT 2650M S01 / CRN: 15888","_id":"SIYcbwZsyh1AjfqT"}
{"title":"The Asian American Experience in Higher Education","teaser":"This course is an inter-disciplinary exploration of Asian Americans in higher education and the impact of their participation on the broader academic landscape.  It considers the historical roots of Asian American collective identity; the evolution of Asian American Studies programs; consequences of the model minority myth; and the psychosocial and structural barriers to participation and academic achievement across different Asian American groups as compared to other racial/ethnic minority groups. Enrollment limited to 20. DPLL LILE","info":"Liza D. Cariaga-Lo (Primary) / EDUC 1700 S01 / CRN: 14752","_id":"SMtAjbY6deCYE4KJ"}
{"title":"Playwriting II","teaser":"Emphasis is placed on dramatic conventions, such as monologues, dialogue, mise-en-scene and time. Writing includes frequent exercises in various theatrical approaches. This course is limited to undergraduate students. Instructor permission required. Prerequisite: TAPS 0100 (formerly LITR 0110C and TSDA 0100). Enrollment is limited to 14 undergraduates per section.  Instructor permission required. S/NC. WRIT","info":"Diane Exavier (Primary) / TAPS 0200 S01 / CRN: 16141","_id":"SNLe2XC0p6B2w6Gv"}
{"title":"Walden + Woodstock: The American Lives of Ralph Waldo Emerson and Bob Dylan","teaser":"Emerson and Dylan are cultural icons of 19th and 120th Century America. Both are elusive and yet representative writers who pushed against the limits of tradition genres, and, by doing so, created new ones: both gave support to turning points in the civil rights struggle and against American military aggression; both were at the epicenter of a wide circle of intellectuals, while denying their own centrality; both had boundless energy for innovative public performance. \"Walden and Woodstock\" is an investigation of the role of the intellectual within celebrity culture and of the use of comparative biography. SOPH","info":"Kenneth S. Sacks (Primary) / HIST 0658D S01 / CRN: 15416","_id":"SU7kP7mic4F8kH0D"}
{"title":"Conservation Medicine","teaser":"How have fruit bats contributed to the emergence of Nipah virus in Malaysia? Is an infectious cancer going to drive the Tasmanian Devil to extinction? Will a warmer world be a sicker world? We will consider these and additional topics at the intersection of global change biology and infectious disease emergence in this course. The course should be of interest to pre-med, general biology and environmental studies concentrators seeking interdisciplinary learning classroom experience. This will satisfy \"Area 3\" organismal biology concentration requirement for Biology/Health-Human Biology. Expected background: BIOL 0200 or equivalent placement. Enrollment limited to 15 sophomores. Instructor permission required. SOPH","info":"Katherine F. Smith (Primary) / BIOL 0140K S01 / CRN: 16841","_id":"SZH24z2wjgekEFVG"}
{"title":"Planning Sustainable Cities","teaser":"What does sustainability mean in the context of degraded urban areas? Can sustainable development be achieved in cities? This course offers a comprehensive, yet critical understanding of the competing theories and practices of sustainable development as applied to cities. Topics include sprawl, energy-efficient transportation, brownfields, community land trusts, green architecture, renewable energy, air and water pollution, and waste recycling.","info":"URBN 1220 S01 / CRN: 16622","_id":"SeZsjKkKua1D785b"}
{"title":"Social Groups in American Politics","teaser":"In this course, students examine the politics of social groups in order to gain a broader perspective of the American political process.  Topics can vary, and include a review of the major developments in American politics for historically discriminated groups including women.","info":"Katherine Tate (Primary) / POLS 1315 S01 / CRN: 15027","_id":"SewURFhvdLdyOS7L"}
{"title":"Principles of Nutrition","teaser":"Introduces the basic principles of human nutrition, and the application of these principles to the specific needs of humans, and the role of nutrition in chronic diseases.  Provides an overview of the nutrients and their use by the human body.  Also examines the role of nutrients in specific functions and disease states of the body.  Not for biology concentration credit. Enrollment limited to 100. LILE","info":"Mary M. Flynn (Primary) / BIOL 0030 S01 / CRN: 14687","_id":"Seznt9bW7O4ctk8J"}
{"title":"Projects in Engineering Design","teaser":"Projects in design for concentrators in chemical, electrical, materials, and mechanical engineering. Students generally work in teams on projects that are defined through discussions with the instructor. An assembled product or detailed design description is the goal of the semester's effort. Prerequisite: completion of engineering core program. Written permission required.","info":"Joseph H. Fontaine (Primary) / ENGN 1000 S01 / CRN: 16494","_id":"SgNJSDO7jJCpKuqg"}
{"title":"Problem of Class in Early America","teaser":"This seminar considers economic inequality in colonial British North America and the new United States. Studying everyone from sailors, servants, and slaves in the seventeenth century to industrial capitalists and slaveholders in the nineteenth century, this course will look at the changing material structures of economic inequality and the shifting arguments that legitimated or challenged that inequality. Readings will explore how historians have approached the subject of inequality using on class as a mode of analysis. Students will write extended papers that place primary research in conversation with relevant historiography. Enrollment limited to: 20. Written permission required. WRIT","info":"Seth E. Rockman (Primary) / HIST 1970D S01 / CRN: 15427","_id":"SkIWcsApVwoYodzg"}
{"title":"Principles of Physiology","teaser":"Introduction to the function and integration of organ systems with an emphasis on human physiology. Includes basic concepts in cell and organ system physiology as well as fundamentals of modern trends in physiological science. Emphasizes the application of physical and chemical principles to organ function at both the cellular and systemic levels. Expected: BIOL 0200 or equivalent.","info":"Andrea Jeanne Sobieraj (Primary) / BIOL 0800 L01 / CRN: 14684","_id":"SmdYbBrRWBskNxsK"}
{"title":"Essentials of the Latin Language","teaser":"An intensive two-semester approach to Latin with special emphasis on developing facility in the rapid reading of Latin literature. No previous knowledge of Latin is required.","info":"LATN 0100 S01 / CRN: 15924","_id":"SnhI66QUxbdPa1Ok"}
{"title":"The History of American Education","teaser":"This course is an introduction to the history of American education with an emphasis on K-12 public schooling.  Using primary and secondary sources, we will explore the development of public schools and school systems, debates over aims and curriculum, conflicts over school governance and funding, and struggles for equity and inclusion over time.  We will analyze the relationship between schooling, capitalism, and democracy.  Finally, in exploring how different generations have defined and tried to solve educational dilemmas, we’ll consider how this history might help us approach education today.","info":"Tracy L. Steffes (Primary) / EDUC 1020 S01 / CRN: 14643","_id":"SuZXyjVGC57PEtrh"}
{"title":"An Introduction to Africana Studies","teaser":"This course introduces students to the vibrant and contested field of Africana Studies by critically exploring and analyzing the links and disjunctures in the cultural, political, and intellectual practices and experiences of people of African descent throughout the African diaspora. Beginning with a critical overview of the history, theoretical orientations, and multiple methodological strategies of the discipline, the course is divided into three thematic units that examine intellectuals, politics, and movements; identity construction and formation; and literary, cultural, and aesthetic theories and practices in the African diaspora. DPLL LILE WRIT","info":"Keisha-Khan Y. Perry (Primary) / AFRI 0090 S01 / CRN: 16227","_id":"SvFPFy1wg3tOhidD"}
{"title":"Quantitative Methods in Psychology","teaser":"A survey of statistical methods used in the behavioral sciences. Topics include graphical data description, probability theory, confidence intervals, principles of hypothesis testing, analysis of variance, correlation, and regression, and techniques for categorical data. Emphasizes application of statistical methods to empirical data.","info":"Leslie Welch (Primary) / CLPS 0900 S01 / CRN: 15720","_id":"SxYSzyB5m4pLbFQO"}
{"title":"Colloquium","teaser":"Required of all first-year graduate students; includes participation in Thursday Lecture Series. E","info":"Kenneth S. Sacks (Primary) / HIST 2930 S01 / CRN: 14871","_id":"T22DMvfHFdrfcuJW"}
{"title":"Modern Problems of Belief","teaser":"Some say it is impossible to be both a modern person and a religious person.  What are the assumptions behind this claim? And what is it about the modern (or postmodern) era that, according to some, has made religion difficult to believe in?  These questions will be discussed as we explore the ways religion has been understood in Western culture from the Enlightenment to the present.  We will read such influential thinkers as Hume, Kant, Hegel, Kierkegaard, Marx, Nietzsche, Freud, Durkheim, Buber, and Woody Allen. Each figure has left a decisive mark on the way we think about religion. LILE","info":"Mark Cladis (Primary) / RELS 0055 S01 / CRN: 15873","_id":"T6mb3PEOpFGkbsXn"}
{"title":"User Interface Design","teaser":"Covers concepts in human-computer interaction that focus on designing user interfaces. Topics include understanding when to use different interfaces, modeling and representing user interaction, principles of user experience design, eliciting requirements and feedback from users, methods for designing and prototyping interfaces, and user interface evaluation. Classroom time will be spent on lectures and hands-on activities, and students will complete assignments and readings outside the classroom. \nStudents interested in learning the process behind building a user interface and gaining hands-on experience designing a user interface should take this course. Programming or web development experience is not necessary.","info":"Jeff Huang (Primary) / CSCI 1300 S01 / CRN: 16559","_id":"TBiSIhaGVJIfnPrR"}
{"title":"Introductory Chemistry","teaser":"Explores stoichiometry, atomic and molecular structure, chemical bonding, solutions, gases, chemical reactions, equilibria, thermochemistry. Three hours of lecture, one conference per week, no laboratory section. S/NC.","info":"Sandra Russo-Rodriguez (Primary) / CHEM 0100 C01 / CRN: 14815","_id":"TED0r9X71j89xaYq"}
{"title":"Honors Seminar","teaser":"Required for students who have been accepted as candidates for honors. The seminar meets weekly to discuss readings and for group critiques. Includes group trips to New York and Boston, to visit galleries, museums, and artists' studios. Instructor permission required. WRIT","info":"Leslie A. Bostrom (Primary) / VISA 1800C S01 / CRN: 16100","_id":"TGKncO92JqFamlBt"}
{"title":"Introduction to Public Policy","teaser":"An overview of policymaking and policy analysis in the contemporary United States. The course begins with an examination of traditional justifications for government action. We will then examine the discipline of policy analysis that has arisen to design and evaluate public policies. We will also consider critiques of the rational method and ask questions about how policy expertise fits into the political system. The course ends with classic works on organizations and implementation. Not open to graduate students. WRIT","info":"PLCY 0100 S01 / CRN: 16004","_id":"TLbLbeEYhfyoK7lH"}
{"title":"Vedic Sanskrit","teaser":"Introduction to reading the Rig Veda and later Vedic literature, with particular attention to the grammar of Vedic Sanskrit.","info":"James L. Fitzgerald (Primary) / SANS 1100 S01 / CRN: 15936","_id":"TORZ66C9ypLntgZn"}
{"title":"Contes et identités francophones","teaser":"How do oral traditions define national and ethnic identities in France, Sénégal, the Caribbean, Louisiana, and Canada? How have the study and rewriting of these traditions redefined such identities? We will consider these questions by studying tale-types that are found in all of the above regions, tale-types that are specific to each, and literary reworkings of folktales by writers, including d'Aulnoy, Perrault, Pourrat, Diop, and Chamoiseau.  Taught in French.","info":"Lewis C. Seifert (Primary) / FREN 1320G S01 / CRN: 16167","_id":"TQNPhWknLMbmWR9K"}
{"title":"History of American Intervention","teaser":"This course reviews modern history through the study of invasions, coups, and other interventions carried out by the United States.  From the Marine assault on Tripoli in 1805 to the bombing of Tripoli in 2011, there have been scores of these episodes.  They have shaped American history and the history of the wider world.  We examine a variety of them, and try to answer three questions about each one. (1)  Why did the United States decide to carry out a particular intervention? (2)  How was the intervention executed? (3)  What have been its long-term effects?","info":"Stephen A. Kinzer (Primary) / INTL 1443 S01 / CRN: 16592","_id":"TTtLsVKHDTej8sCq"}
{"title":"Rhode Island Flora: Understanding and Documenting Local Plant Diversity","teaser":"This Sophomore Seminar focuses on species level identification of plants in Rhode Island and will cover the dominant plant species in each of the state’s main habitats including coastal wetlands and uplands, freshwater wetlands, peatlands, upland forests, and disturbed areas. Students will learn to identify plants using online interactive keys as well as more technical dichotomous keys and will also cover basic ecological processes in each habitat including the interaction of soils, geology, and hydrology. Materials related to plant morphology, plant taxonomy, plant evolution, understanding phylogenetic trees, and botanical illustration. Pre-requisites: BIOL 0200. Instructor permission required. SOPH","info":"Timothy J. Whitfeld (Primary) / BIOL 0940D S01 / CRN: 15593","_id":"TWjpGjHROpzrxI0m"}
{"title":"Sex, Gender, and Society","teaser":"An introduction to the sociological study of sex and gender. More specifically, this course explores how sexuality is perceived, defined, and experienced in the context of society. How sexuality influences our lives, is reflected in social norms, attitudes and beliefs, through public and private policies and practices, and the social institutions is also investigated. This class also focuses on how prevalent gender differences really are in our society and examines the social construction of gender.","info":"Carrie E. Spearin (Primary) / SOC 0230 S01 / CRN: 15520","_id":"TYlEmZ0EyxJmAEeK"}
{"title":"Astronomy, Divination and Politics in the Ancient World","teaser":"This course will explore the relationship between astronomy, divination and politics in the ancient world. The sky provided ancient cultures with many possibilities for observing occurrences that could be interpreted as omens. In many cultures, celestial omens were directed towards the king and his government. As a result, interpreting and controlling celestial omens became an important political activity. In this course, we will explore how and why astronomical events were used politically in ancient Mesopotamia, the Greco-Roman world, and ancient and medieval China. No prior knowledge of astronomy is necessary for this course. WRIT","info":"John M. Steele (Primary) / ASYR 1700 S01 / CRN: 14845","_id":"TgZPMQf6Xc1Dyytg"}
{"title":"Franz Kafka","teaser":"On 27 April 1915, Franz Kafka writes in his diary: “I have nothing to communicate, never, to no one.“ Five years later, in a letter to Milena Jesenská, Kafka modifies this note: “I always try to communicate something incommunicable.“ This seminar is an introduction to Kafka’s writings, where language is no longer simply considered a means of communication nor simply an end in itself, but something most dangerous and unavoidable. Readings will include letters, diaries, unpublished notes, short stories, and fragments from Kafka’s unfinished novels. Taught in English; students from all fields welcome.","info":"Thomas G. Schestag (Primary) / GRMN 1340P S01 / CRN: 15969","_id":"ThAXc6bzFfkYFpCd"}
{"title":"Mineralogy","teaser":"Introduction to mineralogical processes on Earth's surface and its interior. Topics include crystallography, crystal chemistry, nucleation, crystal growth, biomineralization, environmental mineralogy, and mantle mineralogy. Laboratory study devoted to optical identification of rock-forming minerals. Prerequisites: GEOL 0230, CHEM 0100 or 0330, or equivalent.","info":"Yan Liang (Primary) / GEOL 1410 S01 / CRN: 15965","_id":"TiBpwqyfiBZeXDOR"}
{"title":"Introduction to Linguistic Theory","teaser":"The ability to speak and understand a language involves having mastered (quite unconsciously) an intricate and highly structured rule-governed system. Linguists seek to model that rule system. This course introduces the principles underlying phonology (the principles which govern how sounds are put together), syntax (the rule system governing sentence structure), and semantics (the system which relates sentences to meanings). LILE","info":"Scott H. AnderBois (Primary) / CLPS 0030 S01 / CRN: 15759","_id":"TogvDgBWsWtuG4p2"}
{"title":"Epics of India","teaser":"An introduction to Indian epic literature with reading and analysis of one or more of India's grand and powerful epics, such as the Mahabharata, the Rāmāyana, the Cilappadikaram, and others. DPLL","info":"James L. Fitzgerald (Primary) / CLAS 0820 S01 / CRN: 15925","_id":"TwdmipyE06zZ0MpM"}
{"title":"Designing Humanity Centered Robots","teaser":"Offered by Brown’s Computer Science department under the auspices of the Humanity Centered Robotics Initiative. It is focused on the iterative design process and how it can be used to develop robots for solving tasks that help people. It will expose students to a suite of fabrication and prototyping technologies sufficient for creating a functioning robotic system.\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dbvis_j_b78\nThe course has two tracks, one intended for CS concentrators, and one intended for non-concentrators with previous design experience. The non-concentrator track cannot be used toward fulfilling a Computer Science concentration requirement.","info":"Michael L. Littman (Primary) / CSCI 1951C S01 / CRN: 16694","_id":"TwtCDQLhxo8dfwcR"}
{"title":"Czech View of Self and Others","teaser":"Examines the Czech view of themselves as well as others, one of the most debated topics in the current context of expanding European Union. The centerpiece is a film about a man-eating flower (animated by Jan Svankmajer) invented by a crazy scientist, which unfolds in Prague, involving a peace-loving Czech botanist and his daughter, the American detective Nick Carter (played by a Slovak actor), and the Czech police enforcement. The film is a treasure box of symbolic representations of Czechs and people Czechs view as others. Reading materials are drawn from literary and journalistic texts. Equal emphasis on the acquisition of language, including exposure to Colloquial Czech. Separate language tasks for students of two proficiency levels (2nd and 3rd year). Conducted in Czech. The course is for students who completed CZCH 0200 or the equivalent. Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"Masako Ueda Fidler (Primary) / CZCH 0410C S01 / CRN: 15196","_id":"Tz9W0x0nmjvrzBJe"}
{"title":"Sustainable Design in the Built Environment","teaser":"Provides students with an in-depth understanding of sustainability, as it relates to planning, engineering, architecture, landscape architecture and green buildings. Students conduct economic and environmental analyses to examine planning, design and building problems and opportunities holistically. Interdisciplinary teams work on applied design projects. LILE","info":"Kurt Teichert (Primary) / ENVS 1400 S01 / CRN: 15678","_id":"U4LrjvCw9YQtWKWW"}
{"title":"Laozi and the Daodejing","teaser":"Seminar on the historical and philosophical origins of the Daodejing, heretofore acknowledged as the foundational text of the Daoist tradition. Recently discovered and translated manuscripts from Ma-wang-tui and from Guodian that cast new light on these questions will be the basis for the course. Recent research on early commentarial traditions to the Daodejing and on its philosophical significance will also be studied. Prequisites: RELS 0040, 0120, or UNIV 0540 or permission of instructor. Limited enrollment: 20","info":"Harold D. Roth (Primary) / RELS 0530 S01 / CRN: 15999","_id":"U9D034G4E5iPy85G"}
{"title":"History of Anthropology: Anthropological Theories","teaser":"Looks at the way anthropological methods and theories have interlaced through history to understand the dominant concerns in present-day anthropology. What were the important issues that influenced the discipline's history? Who were the significant, and not so well known, historic personalities who shaped anthropological practice and gave it its identity? Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"ANTH 1900 S01 / CRN: 16214","_id":"U9M3PUaFv52ms3e0"}
{"title":"History of Medicine I: Medical Traditions in the Old World Before 1700 (HIST 0286A)","teaser":"Interested students must register for HIST 0286A (CRN 14896).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"SCSO 1385 S01 / CRN: 16311","_id":"UAnImvEJ8bBv9DYD"}
{"title":"Opera","teaser":"A survey of the history, aesthetics, and politics of opera from 1600 to the present day. Analyzes operas and scenes by Monteverdi, Purcell, Mozart, Rossini, Verdi, Wagner, Strauss, and others. Ability to read music not required.","info":"Dana A. Gooley (Primary) / MUSC 0071 S01 / CRN: 16015","_id":"UFz9RAlBXDh9i1lR"}
{"title":"The Long Fall of the Roman Empire","teaser":"Once thought of as the \"Dark Ages,\" this period of western European history should instead be seen as a fascinating time in which late Roman culture fused with that of the Germanic tribes, a mixture tempered by a new religion, Christianity. Issues of particular concern include the symbolic construction of political authority, the role of religion, the nature of social loyalties, and gender roles. P","info":"Jonathan P. Conant (Primary) / HIST 1205 S01 / CRN: 14904","_id":"UJ92b76UY077J9hc"}
{"title":"Biomedical Engineering and Biotechnology Seminar","teaser":"Required of all first- and second-year graduate students in the Biomedical Engineering and Biotechnology Seminar graduate program, and open to others. Concepts of drug delivery and tissue engineering, implantation biology, and cellular therapy, as well as the research projects directed by program faculty. Students present research seminars and participate in presentations by outside speakers. Includes Journal Club activities. Open to graduate students only.","info":"Diane Hoffman-Kim (Primary) / BIOL 2230 S01 / CRN: 14770","_id":"UMsAFta6b3FUdrZ4"}
{"title":"Politics of American Federal Holidays","teaser":"Why were ten national holidays created? The answer requires a review of key events in American political history from 1775 to 1983. Why was the Civil War pivotal? Which presidents were most important in generating support for special days? Conflicts occurred not only in creating the day but which day would be the holiday. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS.","info":"Roger Cobb (Primary) / POLS 0820Q S01 / CRN: 15039","_id":"UNFn8mympZPPHHZO"}
{"title":"Hamlet: Appropriation, Mediation, Theory (ENGL 2360X)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ENGL 2360X (CRN 15454).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 2650N S01 / CRN: 16342","_id":"UOiWFqSDpYMkWZ4b"}
{"title":"Methods and Materials of Math, Science, and Technology","teaser":"Using a developmental approach, students are introduced to the major concepts and teaching methods used in elementary math and science classrooms. S/NC.","info":"Daniel J. Bisaccio (Primary) / EDUC 2140 S01 / CRN: 14630","_id":"UPVAwCvXbDrWuKT0"}
{"title":"Anthropological Approaches to World Issues: Locating Migration ","teaser":"Migration is a main way that not only populations change, but also economies, landscapes, cultures, and identities. Drawing on cases from across the globe and through time, we will examine migration through both the global flows of capital and culture and through migrants’ lives as they build families, fight for belonging, and transform the built environment. This capstone seminar is designed to further concentrators’ engagement with anthropology, its methods, subfields, and its contributions to our knowledge of human experience. Particular emphasis will be on how anthropology aids in understanding the interrelation of global political and economic systems and local experiences.","info":"ANTH 1910H S01 / CRN: 16800","_id":"USNEPra2Ap3fNG9w"}
{"title":"Academic Discourse for Internationals","teaser":"This course develops the English skills of first-year international graduate students who are preparing to be teaching assistants. Students improve their listening comprehension and fluency in conversational interactions typical of academic settings. Areas of spoken English that are addressed include pronunciation, stress patterns, intonation, vocabulary, and structure. Instructor permission required.","info":"Barbara Gourlay (Primary) / EINT 2100 S01 / CRN: 14805","_id":"USnv0AjK0Tx4f53z"}
{"title":"Place Matters: Exploring Community-Level Contexts on Health Behaviors, Outcomes and Disparities","teaser":"There is growing recognition among researchers, public health practitioners and policymakers that place matters for health behaviors and health outcomes. But what is place, and why does it matter? As with many health-related outcomes, the prevalence of ill health is unequally distributed across populations with certain features playing significant roles on health. In this course, we will explore the features of community environments and the associations with health behaviors (e.g. physical activity, preventive care, alcohol, sexual behaviors) and health outcomes (e.g. obesity, cardiovascular disease and mental health). This course is specific to the US. Enrollment limited to 25.","info":"Akilah J. Keita (Primary) / PHP 2325 S01 / CRN: 15891","_id":"UXjYIvMcUJ8643xN"}
{"title":"The Burden of Disease in Developing Countries","teaser":"Defines and critically examines environmental, epidemiologic, demographic, biomedical, and anthropological perspectives on health and disease in developing countries. Emphasis on changes in the underlying causes of morbidity and mortality during economic development. Focuses on the biosocial ecology of diseases. Required major term paper worth 50% of final grade is scholarly centerpiece of course. Weekly discussion sections and small group research projects supplement the two exams and term paper. Guest lecturers cover different diseases and public health perspectives. Enrollment limited to 65. DPLL LILE WRIT","info":"Stephen T. McGarvey (Primary) / PHP 1070 S01 / CRN: 16212","_id":"UmZ1LDRlcASP0K9X"}
{"title":"Introduction to Technical Theatre and Production","teaser":"This course is an introduction to the basic principles of stagecraft, lighting and sound technology and the different elements of theatrical design. Instructor permission required.  Enrollment limited to 15.","info":"Timothy C. Hett (Primary) / TAPS 0250 S01 / CRN: 16127","_id":"Ur81ZMMpH0DjvPPl"}
{"title":"Great Jewish Books (JUDS 0681)","teaser":"Interested students must register for JUDS 0681 (CRN 15078).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"RELS 0322 S01 / CRN: 16326","_id":"UuuDAetzlz1EEkNc"}
{"title":"Introduction to American/Ethnic Studies","teaser":"Considers the U.S. as a society whose unifying identity is rooted in ethnic and racial diversity. Explores the historical and contemporary experiences of racial and ethnic groups in this country and analyzes different forms of representation of those experiences, as well as representations of the racial and ethnic stratification in the U.S. imagination.","info":"Elizabeth M. Hoover (Primary) / ETHN 0500 S01 / CRN: 15916","_id":"UynAuTqjd3giqEPF"}
{"title":"Writing and Speaking Portuguese","teaser":"Designed to improve the students' ability in contemporary spoken and written Portuguese. Using such cultural items as short stories, plays, films, videos, newspaper and magazine articles, and popular music, students discuss a variety of topics with the aim of developing good communication skills. Attention also given to developing writing ability. A systematic review of Portuguese grammar is included. Prerequisite: POBS 0200, or POBS 0110, or placement. Conducted in Portuguese. Completion of POBS 0400 is the minimum requirement for participation in the Brown-in-Brazil Program. Offered every semester. WRIT","info":"Naomi Parker (Primary) / POBS 0400 S01 / CRN: 15537","_id":"V25wIhclU45JVyNZ"}
{"title":"Composing for Real-Time Systems","teaser":"This seminar will explore the use of interactive systems from the point of view of the programmer/performer. Using the dialectic between composition and improvisation as a starting point, we will explore the aesthetics and philosophy of performance, from the perspective of real-time systems that enhance the relation between action and event. The experience of writing a real-time composition will then be developed in experiments in improvisation and real-time networks. The goal is to blur the boundaries of composer and performer by exploring the intersections of each role within a real-time electronic environment.","info":"Joseph W. Rovan (Primary) / MUSC 2230 S01 / CRN: 16274","_id":"V3foRTXp88mHLbhT"}
{"title":"Israel-Palestine: Lands and Peoples I","teaser":"This advanced undergraduate seminar seeks to provide a deeper understanding of the links between the region now known as Israel and Palestine and the peoples that have inhabited it or have made it into part of their mental, mythical. and religious landscape throughout history. The course will be interdisciplinary at its very core, engaging the perspectives of historians, geologists, geographers, sociologists, scholars of religion and the arts, politics and media. At the very heart of the seminar is the question: What makes for the bond between groups and place  - real or imagined, tangible or ephemeral.  No prerequisites required.","info":"Omer Bartov (Primary) / HIST 1969A S01 / CRN: 16563","_id":"V9BJK1mV5rcSimKn"}
{"title":"La Naissance du roman Français","teaser":"From the origins of medieval romance in the 12th century, this course traces the history of the genre through the end of the sixteenth century. What was the fate of the knight errant in the modern era and how did the invention of printing transform medieval romance cycles? Did the humanist novel offer a corrective to the vagaries of chivalric romance?  Literary works will be read in light of theories of the novel.  Readings in Chrétien de Troyes, the prose Lancelot, Rabelais, Bakhtin, Lukács, and others.  Taught in French.","info":"Virginia A. Krause (Primary) / FREN 2110A S01 / CRN: 16166","_id":"V9SNzHm1oQo9JeVh"}
{"title":"Basic Physics","teaser":"Survey of mechanics, electricity, magnetism, optics, and modern physics for concentrators in sciences other than physics-including premedical students or students without prior exposure to physics who require a less rigorous course than PHYS 0050, 0060. Employs the concepts of elementary calculus but little of its technique. Lectures, conferences, and laboratory. Six hours of attendance.  Recommended:  MATH 0090 or 0100.","info":"PHYS 0030 L01 / CRN: 15205","_id":"V9xFlhucsLmdDWq6"}
{"title":"Introduction to Video Production: Critical Strategies and Histories","teaser":"Provides the basic principles of independent media production through a cooperative, hands-on approach utilizing digital video. Emphasizes video as a critical intervention in social and visual arts contexts. A major project, three shorter works, and in-class presentations of work-in-progress required. Weekly screenings contextualize student work. No previous experience required. Application required. Application is available in the MCM office. Students must bring a completed application to the first class to be considered for admission. Up to 40 students can apply, but the final class list of 12 will be determined after this meeting, with permission of the instructor.","info":"MCM 0730 F01 / CRN: 14886","_id":"VAtIw0sWBdANoy3J"}
{"title":"Personality","teaser":"A survey of the major perspectives (psychoanalytic, behavioral, humanistic, etc.) within theories of personality. Particular emphasis is placed on the integration of research and theory.","info":"Brian C. Hayden (Primary) / CLPS 0701 S01 / CRN: 15757","_id":"VEIs10WbOd9zp2cT"}
{"title":"Experimental Design in Ecology","teaser":"An overview and discussion of the basic principles used to design lab and field experiments in ecology and environmental science. Topics include: replication and statistical power, appropriate use of factorial designs, nonparametric methods, post hoc texts, natural versus manipulative experiments, experimental artifacts and impact study design. Discussions based on primary literature and a new text. Expected: BIOL 0420.","info":"Jon D. Witman (Primary) / BIOL 1420 S01 / CRN: 14747","_id":"VEMhpbl1t6m09ly1"}
{"title":"Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming and Computer Science","teaser":"Emphasizes object-oriented design and programming in Java, an effective modern technique for producing modular, reusable, internet-aware programs. Also introduces interactive computer graphics, user interface design and some fundamental data structures and algorithms. A sequence of successively more complex graphics programs, including Tetris, and culminating in a significant final project, helps provide a serious introduction to the field intended for both potential concentrators and those who may take only a single course. No prerequisites, no prior knowledge of programming required.","info":"Andries van Dam (Primary) / CSCI 0150 S01 / CRN: 15977","_id":"VFIhFypN732v9LcQ"}
{"title":"Elementary Italian","teaser":"Elective for students without previous training in Italian. No credit for first semester alone. Fundamentals of Italian grammar and development of skills in speaking, comprehension, and writing. Overview of contemporary Italian society. Four meetings per week, audio and video work, two Italian films.  Note:  This is a year course.","info":"Cristina Abbona-Sneider (Primary) / ITAL 0100 S01 / CRN: 15307","_id":"VFf7oTQrBfozeo3A"}
{"title":"Epistemology","teaser":"We’ll concentrate on several issues involving knowledge and rational belief:  What is knowledge, and how does it relate to rational or justified belief?  Does a person’s knowing something depend on non-evidential factors such as the practical importance of the person’s being correct?  Does the justification of a person’s belief depend just on facts internal to the person—or might it depend on her environment?  And what can we learn from thinking about the skeptical position which claims that we’re not justified in believing even the most ordinary things about the world around us?","info":"David P. Christensen (Primary) / PHIL 1750 S01 / CRN: 15087","_id":"VG3AkkZHoqtV6JrN"}
{"title":"New Testament and the Beginnings of Christianity","teaser":"How and why Christianity emerged in various forms in the ancient Mediterranean. Insights from religious studies, gender studies, literary studies, anthropology, and other fields. Careful critical readings of New Testament books, non-canonical gospels, early Christian letters, ancient apocalypses. Topics include: Jewish contexts; representations of Jesus; Paul and early communities; Christians and imperial Rome; gender constructions; canonization; eventual separation of Christianity and Judaism. Open to all students. LILE WRIT","info":"RELS 0400 S01 / CRN: 15875","_id":"VG81IMqwKzBPACjG"}
{"title":"Voices of Romanticism","teaser":"Readings of lyric poetry in the European Romantic tradition. Focus on problems of lyric subjectivity and representation, and the rhetoric of \"voice.\" Emphasis on formal features of poetry. The course will be based on close reading and frequent writing assignments. Readings from Wordsworth, Shelley, Keats, Goethe, Novalis, Hugo, Nerval, Lamartine, Baudelaire and others. Knowledge of French or German required, or by permission.","info":"Susan Bernstein (Primary) / COLT 1430L S01 / CRN: 15073","_id":"VMLJPua38vOcbLwV"}
{"title":"China Through the Lens: History, Cinema, and Critical Discourse","teaser":"This is a critical introduction to the history of mainland Chinese film. It focuses on three dimensions of cinematic practice: the historical context of film productions, the specific context/form of each film, and the critical reception of Chinese films in film studies. Important themes such as nation, visual modernity, cinematic narrative, and commercialism will be studied across the three dimensions.","info":"Lingzhen Wang (Primary) / EAST 1270 S01 / CRN: 14992","_id":"VNI9HgUpz2ATRa8J"}
{"title":"Number Theory","teaser":"Introduction to algebraic and analytic number theory. Topics covered during the first semester include number fields, rings of integers, primes and ramification theory, completions, adeles and ideles, and zeta functions. Content of the second semester varies from year to year; possible topics include class field theory, arithmetic geometry, analytic number theory, and arithmetic K-theory. Prerequisite: MATH 2510.","info":"Jeffrey Hoffstein (Primary) / MATH 2530 S01 / CRN: 15393","_id":"VRcbSd9gh8VaQUMm"}
{"title":"Directing: Composition and Staging","teaser":"This course is open only to the MFA Consortium program. It will include information and exercises addressing how to stage a play, balance the space, and transition from scene to scene. It will also focus on the director's responsibility to the actors, and ways in which to help them create their roles.","info":"Stephen Berenson (Primary) / TAPS 2530 S01 / CRN: 11011","_id":"Voe5daZ06qKKWSWM"}
{"title":"What Is Critique?","teaser":"Few concepts have enjoyed as much authority and sustained engagement over the past 250 years of Western modernity as the concept of \"critique\"—from German Idealism to contemporary critical theory. Beginning with the formulation of critique in Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason, we will trace various trajectories and practices of critique in thinkers such as Schlegel, Hegel, Marx, Heidegger, Benjamin, Horkheimer, Adorno, Derrida, and Foucault, who revisits the politics of critique by asking: \"How is it possible…not to be governed like this and not for that purpose and not by those people?\" Taught in English. Students from various fields welcome.","info":"Gerhard Richter (Primary) / GRMN 2661D S01 / CRN: 15973","_id":"VpaKwIaJQA3ET3Mp"}
{"title":"Politics of the Post-Soviet States","teaser":"What political and economic systems have developed in the Post-Soviet states since 1991?  Course focuses on failed efforts to build democracy in Russia; divergent patterns of development, including democratization and EU accession in the Baltics, reversions to authoritarianism and Islamic revival in Central Asia; conflict in Georgia and Chechnya; development of economies, civil society; relations among post-Soviet states.  Prior study of political science recommended.","info":"Linda J. Cook (Primary) / POLS 1220 S01 / CRN: 15024","_id":"VqD9RjU0uhDYyCzb"}
{"title":"Geomicrobiology ","teaser":"Microbes were the predominant form of life for most of Earth's history and continue to drive many of the elemental cycles that sustain life in our contemporary biosphere. By taking this course students will learn about the phylogenetic and metabolic diversity of microbes in the environment and their influence on global biogeochemical cycles. Students will gain hands-on experience with molecular and environmental microbiological techniques and the bioinformatics tools required to analyze and interpret the resulting data. There are 2 sections or topical areas:\nPhylogenetic and ecological diversity of microbes; Microbial and metabolic diversity of biogeochemical cycling. Prerequisite: BIOL 0415 or 1460 or 1480 or GEOL 1130. Enrollment limited to 12. Instructor permission required\n.","info":"Jeremy J. Rich (Primary) / GEOL 1950F S01 / CRN: 15985","_id":"VrM8OFpG52H3tvDZ"}
{"title":"Invertebrate Zoology","teaser":"A survey of invertebrate animals emphasizing evolutionary patterns and ecological relationships. Functional morphology, physiology, reproduction, development, and behavior of invertebrates will be examined. Laboratory exercises and two separate day-long field trips provide firsthand experience with the animals. Expected: BIOL 0200 or equivalent. Enrollment limited to 44. Students MUST register for the lecture section and a lab.","info":"Casey Dunn (Primary) / BIOL 0410 L01 / CRN: 14740","_id":"VriZfkJOTd3M9G0q"}
{"title":"Advanced Modern Chinese I","teaser":"An advanced course designed to enable students to read authentic materials. Students enhance their listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills; improve their narrative and descriptive abilities; and learn to express abstract ideas both orally and in writing. Five classroom meetings weekly. Prerequisite: CHIN 0250 or CHIN 0400 or permission of instructor.","info":"Wenhui Chen (Primary) / CHIN 0500 S01 / CRN: 14950","_id":"VsAl0JR3WhMfpSvr"}
{"title":"Introduction to Latin Literature","teaser":"Introduction to Latin literature through intensive reading of major authors in prose and poetry with careful attention to grammar and style. Prerequisite: LATN 0100, 0200 or 0110 (or equivalent).","info":"LATN 0300 S01 / CRN: 15930","_id":"VwcGbyeWDbKnQsTm"}
{"title":"Performance Theory and World Theatre History: Paleolithic to Medieval (TAPS 1230)","teaser":"Interested students must register for TAPS 1230 (CRN 16136).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"MCM 1202N S01 / CRN: 16320","_id":"W5kepySB7yp7w3qy"}
{"title":"Modern Architecture","teaser":"The \"classic\" period of European and American modern architecture from the turn of the century to the 1950s. Presents both the established canon of masterpieces by among many others,  Frank Lloyd Wright, Mies van der Rohe, and LeCorbusier, and counterbalances this approach with information about new building materials, changing conditions of architectural production, and the \"mechanisms of fame.\" A","info":"Dietrich Neumann (Primary) / HIAA 0850 S01 / CRN: 14921","_id":"W6lP9z0AtpXUEhU1"}
{"title":"Economics of Education I","teaser":"How do we attract good teachers to public schools? What are the economic returns to early-childhood intervention programs? These are just two examples of important education policy questions. This course introduces key concepts of microeconomic theory and uses them to analyze these and other policy questions. Organized around a structured sequence of readings. First year students require instructor permission.","info":"John H. Tyler (Primary) / EDUC 1130 S01 / CRN: 14644","_id":"WCZeIwdyYBtVXErG"}
{"title":"Art and Philosophy in the Nineteenth Century","teaser":"An excessively cognitivist approach to aesthetics in German Idealism led to Hegel's thesis of the \"end of art\" (who had himself redefined aesthetics as philosophy of art).  During the remainder of the century, philosophers searched for more complex approaches to the experience of art that would not have this consequence.  We will explore this narrative.  Authors to be studied include Hegel, Schopenhauer, Emerson, Nietzsche, Ruskin, Dilthey, and Santayana.","info":"Paul D. Guyer (Primary) / HMAN 2970P S01 / CRN: 15191","_id":"WFxeyojmQRIi66x9"}
{"title":"Anthropology of China","teaser":"This course introduces students to contemporary Chinese culture and society, w/a focus on the rapid changes that have taken place during the post-Mao reform era in the People’s Republic of China (1978- present). Emphasis will be placed on the importance of historical and global context in developing an understanding of contemporary Chinese culture. Readings and lectures will draw primarily upon recent ethnographic work conducted in the PRC, but readings from the disciplines of history, political science, public health, and contemporary Chinese literature (in translation) will also be incorporated. Topics: family life, urbanization, housing, migration, gender, health/disease, labor, globalization, and cyberculture. LILE","info":"Katherine A. Mason (Primary) / ANTH 1111 S01 / CRN: 16593","_id":"WIgKAaAvSoBfSRR9"}
{"title":"Principles of Archaeology","teaser":"Examines theoretical and methodological issues in anthropological archaeology. Attention is given to past concerns, current debates, and future directions of archaeology in the social sciences.","info":"Robert W. Preucel Jr. (Primary) / ANTH 2501 S01 / CRN: 16206","_id":"WJiZylxzsc0ATqmp"}
{"title":"Honors Tutorial for Economics Majors","teaser":"Students intending to write an honors thesis in economics must register for this class.  The goal is to help students with the process of identifying and defining feasible topics, investigating relevant background literature, framing hypotheses, and planning the structure of their thesis.  Each student must find a thesis advisor with interests related to their topic and plan to enroll in ECON 1970 during the final semester of senior year.\nNote this course does not count toward Economics concentration credit.","info":"Kenneth Chay (Primary) / ECON 1960 S01 / CRN: 15165","_id":"WL8U0StVoukjPtoh"}
{"title":"Advanced Spanish I","teaser":"Offers comprehensive work in listening, speaking, reading, and writing, with targeted grammar review. Students work with a variety of readings (literature, newspaper articles, etc.) and with art forms such as music and film, in order to develop oral and written expression and to explore issues relevant to the Hispanic world. Students explore topics of their own interest through student-led activities and presentations. Prerequisite: HISP0400 or placement: SAT II scores between 600 and 660, Brown Placement Exam scores between 491 and 570, or AP score of 4 in language or literature. Please check Hispanic Studies website (Undergraduate Programs) for course descriptions and placement information. Enrollment limited to 18; 15 spaces are available for students during pre-registration. 3 spaces will be available at the start of the semester for incoming or re-admitted students who should attend the first class. Pre-enrolled students must attend the first four days of class to maintain their pre-registered status and notify the instructor in advance if they must miss any day before the 4th class when the composition of the course section is finalized.","info":"Nidia A. Schuhmacher (Primary) / HISP 0500 S01 / CRN: 15516","_id":"WMYkmQi6piGsv1Vc"}
{"title":"The Campus on Fire:  American Colleges and Universities in the 1960's","teaser":"Ole Miss, Berkeley, Columbia, and Kent State: just a few of the campus battlegrounds where conflicts over civil rights, the Vietnam War, and other major issues were fought in the 1960's. Students consult primary and secondary sources about higher education's role in these conflicts, and why the consequences of its involvement still linger today. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS WRIT","info":"Luther Spoehr (Primary) / EDUC 0400 S01 / CRN: 14625","_id":"WMpL14PiHAPRBwsx"}
{"title":"Elementary Psychology: An Introduction to Mind and Behavior","teaser":"A survey covering the roles of inherited and environmental determinants of human behavior. Topics include sensation, perception, learning, memory, motivation, emotion, neural processes, language, social development, personality assessment, obedience, interpersonal attraction, and the diagnosis, origins, and treatment of mental illness. Laboratory sections illustrate methodologies used to study these issues. Topic selection varies with instructor.","info":"Elena Kristie Festa (Primary) / CLPS 0010 L01 / CRN: 16072","_id":"WOEisIXmEhTN2rfy"}
{"title":"Popular Culture in Latin America and the Caribbean","teaser":"From tango to plastic surgery, Donald Duck to reggaeton, this course places popular culture at the center of modern Latin American and Caribbean history. How, we will ask, did popular culture reflect and shape struggles over national belonging? How did foreign cultural products come to bear on international relations and transnational flows? In what contexts has culture served as a vehicle of resistance to dominant ideologies and systems of power? Far from a mere \"diversion,\" popular culture instead offers a compelling lens onto the relationship between state and society in Latin America and beyond. WRIT FYS","info":"Jennifer L. Lambe (Primary) / HIST 0537A S01 / CRN: 15411","_id":"WPpNFMILWW5CrxHI"}
{"title":"Early Modern Continental Europe - Reading","teaser":"This course is designed to introduce graduate students to some major topics and debates in early modern European history, as well as a range of geographical, methodological, and historiographical perspectives. Readings combine recent works and classics to give a sense both of where the field has been and where it is going.  Topics covered include political history, religious interactions (among Christians and between Christians, Jews and Moslems), urban history, the history of the book, Atlantic history, the history of science, and the Enlightenment.  The class also provides the opportunity to explore a single topic of choice in greater depth.","info":"Adam Teller (Primary) / HIST 2970E S01 / CRN: 14867","_id":"WTKtRg7S0rNXgwf8"}
{"title":"Workshop in Applied Economics","teaser":"No description available.","info":"ECON 2930 S01 / CRN: 16572","_id":"WWG0amYAxnv6nY2D"}
{"title":"Intermediate Hebrew","teaser":"Develops the skills of reading, writing, and conversing in contemporary Israeli Hebrew at the intermediate level and of reading Hebrew texts of the biblical, rabbinic, and modern periods (biblical stories, rabbinic legends, modern Hebrew poems, stories, essays, newspaper articles). Discussions and compositions focus on the psychological, cultural, political, and social issues reflected in the Hebrew sources that we study. Prerequisite: JUDS 0200 or equivalent. Enrollment limited to 20. If unable to enroll because of closed registration, please contact the professor and a wait list will be created.","info":"Ruth Adler Ben Yehuda (Primary) / JUDS 0300 S01 / CRN: 14672","_id":"WZPhxoUSrTLXiIup"}
{"title":"Writing Workshop","teaser":"Required of all incoming Ph.D. students.","info":"Jane Kamensky (Primary) / HIST 2940 S01 / CRN: 14873","_id":"WaMQGLqgbi1N9NUd"}
{"title":"Difficult Relations? Judaism and Christianity from the Middle Ages until the Present (JUDS 0050M)","teaser":"Interested students must register for JUDS 0050M (CRN 15077).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"HIST 0930G S01 / CRN: 16359","_id":"WmBvUj3f3HLPXsnZ"}
{"title":"Graduate Proseminar","teaser":"Will cover classics of philosophy from the end of the 19th century to the end of the 20th; including ethics as well as metaphysics, epistemology and philosophy of language.","info":"Nomy Arpaly (Primary) / PHIL 2200 S01 / CRN: 15099","_id":"WmM0KiWOsCPOBci3"}
{"title":"Popular Culture, 1400 - 1800","teaser":"From folktales to rebel songs, carnival play and everyday rituals, popular culture shaped the lives of ordinary people of the early modern world.  In this course we explore the materials available at Brown for examining popular culture before 1800. Students write a final paper from the materials they select.  Italy will be examined comparatively with other geographical areas in order to prepare students for their research. Topics will include the multiplicity of popular cultures; the relationship between popular culture and elite culture; transformations in the beliefs, rituals, and practices that provided meaning for peoples of the early modern world.","info":"Caroline Castiglione (Primary) / ITAL 1430 S01 / CRN: 15107","_id":"WmPF4oNXN1n9Djag"}
{"title":"From the Blues to Beyoncé: Rock, A Portrait of America","teaser":"This course seeks to view American cultural and social history of the last century through the lens of rock music. We will investigate the history of rock and popular music from its roots in the early twentieth-century to the present. We will examine the social, cultural and political contexts that gave birth to the various genres of rock music by exploring the music through the lenses of race, class, gender, advances in technology, and developments in the music business. No musical background is required.","info":"Eric Nathan (Primary) / MUSC 0033 S01 / CRN: 16854","_id":"Wo7i1UY8kzbzHge7"}
{"title":"Advanced Intermediate Haitian Creole","teaser":"Fast-paced course for advanced/intermediate students of Haitian Creole. Designed for those who speak and understand Haitian Creole with some fluency but are seeking ways of perfecting their language skills, overcoming grammatical snags, increasing vocabularity, and mastering the idiomatic use of the language and proverbs. Reading and responding to authentic literature in Haitian Creole will be the focus of the course. Prerequisite: CROL 0200. Enrollment is limited to 18. If course is full, please sign the wait list in Rm. 215, 111 Thayer Street.","info":"Patrick Sylvain (Primary) / CROL 0300 S01 / CRN: 14862","_id":"WpuoVxrlWBK0TaKl"}
{"title":"Modernist Africana Poetry of the Americas","teaser":"Focus on origins of Modernism among Africana authors of the Americas, with\n emphasis on the poetry, poetics and poetry movements of Brazil and Latin America, the\n Caribbean and US from 1888 through the first half of the 20th century.\n Begins with an overview of innovations wrought by Rubén Dario of Nicaragua, arguably the\n first modernist poet, and continues with the Harlem Renaissance of the 1910's and 20's; the\n Brazilian writers at the center of the Week of Modern Art of 1922; Caribbean writers of the\nNegrismo and Négritude movements; concludes with the work of such US and\n Anglophone Caribbean poets as Gwendolyn Brooks, Robert Hayden and Martin Carter. Enrollment limited to 20. DPLL","info":"AFRI 1630 S01 / CRN: 16231","_id":"WuBwOtsZzc0Dj0CH"}
{"title":"Basic Persian","teaser":"Fast-paced course for beginners. Course stresses acquisition of Persian alphabet and basic grammatical patterns, beginning levels of speaking, listening, reading, and writing. Strong emphasis on the links between language and culture.","info":"Iraj Anvar (Primary) / PRSN 0100 S01 / CRN: 14864","_id":"WugTONlz9YLfrAgB"}
{"title":"The Entrepreneurial Process: Innovation in Practice","teaser":"Entrepreneurship is innovation in practice: transforming ideas into opportunities, and, through a deliberate process, opportunities into commercial realities. These entrepreneurial activities can take place in two contexts: the creation of new organizations; and within existing organizations. This course will present an entrepreneurial framework for these entrepreneurial processes, supported by case studies that illustrate essential elements. Successful entrepreneurs and expert practitioners will be introduced who will highlight practical approaches to entrepreneurial success. Enrollment limited to 35. WRIT","info":"Danny Warshay (Primary) / ENGN 1010 S01 / CRN: 16552","_id":"Wwi8HXkhGX0FWqrt"}
{"title":"Advanced Studio Foundation","teaser":"Some students arrive at Brown with a greater understanding of visual art principles than most, yet need an introduction to other aspects before taking more advanced courses. Figure drawing is practiced throughout the semester, utilizing a variety of media. Weekly outside assignments explore diverse themes and become the subject of comprehensive class discussions. Serves as a prerequisite to upper-level courses, as does VISA0100.Admittance to this course will be determined by a portfolio review. Students must submit their portfolio, one week prior to the start of classes, to the Visual Art department office in List, room 222; digital images submitted on a CD are preferred. Students will be notified of acceptance into the class by the end of the first week of classes.","info":"Paul T. Myoda (Primary) / VISA 0110 S01 / CRN: 16088","_id":"WxM7O7U4JdUWIqJC"}
{"title":"Computational Vision","teaser":"An introduction to computational models of biological vision summarizing traditional approaches and providing experience with state-of-the-art methods. We will sample topics from low- and mid-level vision including fundamental aspects of image, stereo, motion, surface and color processing to high-level vision including object and action recognition as well as scene understanding. Connections to contemporary research in computer vision and computational neuroscience will be emphasized highlighting how computational models may motivate the development of new hypothesis for the design of experiments in visual perception. Prerequisite: comfort with basic linear algebra and at least one introductory course in Computer Science or programming, or instructor permission.","info":"Thomas R. Serre (Primary) / CLPS 1520 S01 / CRN: 15713","_id":"WxOTkhMZnqJS7GHm"}
{"title":"Current Global Macroeconomic Challenges","teaser":"Analysis of current economic challenges in the U.S. and China. Topics include fiscal and monetary policies, international trade, capital flows and exchange rate policy, and policies for long-run growth. Emphasis on macroeconomic policies in China and the U.S., including their global impact. Prerequisites: ECON 1210. Also recommended: ECON 1550 and 1850. Enrollment limited to 100.","info":"ECON 1500 S01 / CRN: 15858","_id":"X2tJQqlWa9Uf9ZwI"}
{"title":"European Intellectual History: Discovering the Modern","teaser":"A lecture course, primarily for juniors and seniors, that focuses on salient philosophic, artistic, and ideological currents of 19th-century Europe. Beginning with the crisis of political and cultural legitimacy posed by the French Revolution, it concludes with the consolidation of bourgeois culture in the 1860s and 1870s and the two great scientific systematizers of these decades: Darwin and Marx.  WRIT","info":"Mary Gluck (Primary) / HIST 1230A S01 / CRN: 14905","_id":"X6jeWkzDPue6Rf4C"}
{"title":"Intermediate Polish","teaser":"This course is for students who have completed first-year Polish. In this course you will further develop skills in speaking, reading, writing and understanding Polish. By the end of this course, you will be able to carry on basic conversations in Polish on many topics from your daily life. You will be able to write notes and simple letters to Polish friends or keep a journal in Polish. You will also have the skills to read basic texts. Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"Magdalena Harrison (Primary) / PLSH 0300 S01 / CRN: 16263","_id":"X9CEApNXL3sQibE0"}
{"title":"Studio Foundation","teaser":"An introduction to basic visual art concepts, exploring a range of materials with emphasis on experimentation and analysis of visual relationships. Drawing is a vital part of this course. Admittance to this course will be determined by an online lottery, which can be accessed through the VISA 0100 Lottery link in the Student menu in Banner Web. VISA 0100 or 0110 is a prerequisite to any advanced studio course work at Brown or the Rhode Island School of Design. Under certain circumstances a student may petition for a waiver of this requirement upon submission of a portfolio.","info":"Martin Smick (Primary) / VISA 0100 S01 / CRN: 16039","_id":"XBBtr2G2jVLzhNRh"}
{"title":"Jews and Revolutions in the 20th Century","teaser":"The 20th century was an age of revolutions, both political and social, in which Jews played pivotal roles.  The student uprisings of the 1960s, the Feminist revolution, and the rise of the LGTBQ movement were crucial moments of change in the development of the western world.   We will discuss the Jews' roles in all these revolutionary movements, as well as in the great political revolutions of the time. WRIT DPLL LILE","info":"Rachel Rojanski (Primary) / JUDS 1701 S01 / CRN: 15652","_id":"XEhg58gIhG5nP2fb"}
{"title":"Teoría y Práctica Poética en Cesar Vallejo","teaser":"Seminario dedicado a estudiar en profundidad la poesía hermética de Vallejo. Analizaremos su práctica poética así como su teoria del poema a través de la evolución de su obra y pensamiento.","info":"Julio C. Ortega (Primary) / HISP 2350G S01 / CRN: 15733","_id":"XKYAVeZsykuEVrsT"}
{"title":"Fieldwork and Seminar in Secondary Education","teaser":"Combines study of current educational issues with extensive fieldwork that allows the student to observe how these issues translate themselves into reality on a daily basis. Each student reads and discusses recent writing about educational history, theory, and practice, and observes a class in a local school for 32 hours. The final paper synthesizes reading and observations.","info":"Daniel J. Bisaccio (Primary) / EDUC 0900 S01 / CRN: 14629","_id":"XO7lCOvFaD6HoWfB"}
{"title":"The Long Fall of the Roman Empire (HIST 1205)","teaser":"Interested students must register for HIST 1205 (CRN 14904).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ARCH 1128 S01 / CRN: 16363","_id":"XQnoVkOmq3ZNFnjk"}
{"title":"Computers and Music","teaser":"An introduction to the field of computer music, focusing on the use of electronics and computers in music and performance.  Investigates basic acoustics, perception of sound, the history of music technology, and musical applications.   Extensive listening assignments illustrate the impact of technology on popular and experimental genres. No prerequisites, though some experience with computers and some knowledge of music is very helpful. Significant hands-on experience with computer music systems. Enrollment limited to 80 students. Permission will be granted based on a questionnaire given in the first class, with preference given to lower-level students. LILE","info":"Todd E. Winkler (Primary) / MUSC 0200 S01 / CRN: 16010","_id":"XbGEyLDIeQJHEFIz"}
{"title":"Chemical Biology","teaser":"This course covers topics at the interface of chemistry and biology and, specifically, the use of chemical tools to probe biological systems.  Using examples from the recent literature, we will discuss using the central methods of chemistry, namely the ability to design and synthesize compounds with a particular set of properties, to analyze biological problems.  Specific topics include molecular recognition of DNA, artificial enzymes, small molecule sensors, and in vivo imaging of proteins, nucleic acids, and cell-surface carbohydrates.  Prerequisites: CHEM 0350,CHEM 0360, and BIOL 0280.\nIf enrollment exceeds the limit, permission to enroll will be allotted in the order: 1) first year graduate students, 2) senior concentrators in Chemistry or Biochemistry 3) junior concentrators 4) other students. Students who have registered or have permission to enroll must attend the first three classes or risk losing their places to someone on the waiting list.","info":"Jason K. Sello (Primary) / CHEM 1230 S01 / CRN: 14832","_id":"XmvNdh3G00lMYkTa"}
{"title":"Research Methods in Behavioral Science","teaser":"This course provides students with fundamental principles of behavioral and social research methodology for understanding the determinants of public health problems, and for executing and testing public health interventions. We will focus on experimental methods, observational studies, and qualitative approaches. We will develop skills in understanding and interpreting data--both quantitative and qualitative. Throughout the course we will emphasize ethical, cultural, and professional issues for designing public health interventions. Prior coursework in research methodology and quantitative methods is recommended but not required. Open to graduate students and advanced undergraduates. Enrollment limited to 15.","info":"Don Operario (Primary) / PHP 2300 S01 / CRN: 15890","_id":"XrABT3Gbr6pdpf7M"}
{"title":"Russian Jewish Literature and Film (RUSS 1900)","teaser":"Interested students must register for RUSS 1900 (CRN 16845).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"JUDS 1654 S01 / CRN: 16885","_id":"Y19JLlCGrWgIzsez"}
{"title":"Basic Chinese","teaser":"A year-long introduction to Standard Chinese (Mandarin). Speaking, reading, writing, and grammar. Five classroom meetings weekly. This is the first half of a year-long course whose first semester grade is normally a temporary one.  Neither semester may be elected independently without special written permission. The final grade submitted at the end of course work in CHIN 0200 covers the entire year and is recorded as the final grade for both semesters.","info":"Yang Wang (Primary) / CHIN 0100 S01 / CRN: 14932","_id":"Y3HK7ZiRxQnvu09Y"}
{"title":"English History, 1529-1660","teaser":"Examines politics, religion, and society from the Protestant Reformation to the Puritan Revolution-a period of rapid and dramatic change when the world, for most English people, was turned upside down. Considers the experiences and concerns of ordinary men and women, as well as the elite. Takes in Scotland, Ireland, and the great migration to New England. P","info":"Timothy J. G. Harris (Primary) / HIST 1266C S01 / CRN: 14928","_id":"Y4ob7d9s0dDrn5b9"}
{"title":"When Leaders Lie: Machiavelli in International Context (ITAL 0981)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ITAL 0981 (CRN 15245).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"HIST 0940C S01 / CRN: 16356","_id":"YBo4814A2tFQOpca"}
{"title":"500 Million Years of Land Plants","teaser":"Explores the evolution of terrestrial plants and the ecosystems they structure. Introduces the fossil record of plants and basic patterns of plant diversification on land. Highlights major trends in the evolution of plant morphology, anatomy, and ecology. Lectures survey the diversity and community structure of different geological time periods. Weekly discussion sections, field trips, and assignments examine major evolutionary trends, particularly with regard to climatic changes over time. Expected: BIOL 0400, BIOL 0430, (or equivalent placement).  Enrollment limited to 15 students; instructor permission; register for section and conference.","info":"Andrew B Leslie (Primary) / BIOL 1495 S01 / CRN: 14793","_id":"YGwXvIeIwvG8Hn6X"}
{"title":"Remote Sensing of Earth and Planetary Surfaces","teaser":"Geologic applications of remotely sensed information derived from interaction of electromagnetic radiation (X-ray, gamma-ray, visible, near-IR, mid-IR, radar) with geologic materials. Applications emphasize remote geochemical analyses for both terrestrial and extraterrestrial environments. Several spectroscopy and image processing labs. GEOL 1410 (Mineralogy), PHYS 0060, or equivalent recommended.","info":"Ralph E. Milliken (Primary) / GEOL 1710 S01 / CRN: 16634","_id":"YKsZp9uiMqC6HRPm"}
{"title":"Advanced Thermodynamics I","teaser":"Fundamental principles of macroscopic equilibrium; thermodynamic stability; Gibbs relations and chemical thermodynamics; applications to various systems, including fluids, solids, and magnetic and dielectric materials. Fundamental principles of macroscopic nonequilibrium thermodynamics (irreversible processes). Entropy production; Curie's principle; Onsager-Casimir reciprocal relations; applications to transport and relaxation phenomena in continuous systems.","info":"Robert H. Hurt (Primary) / ENGN 2730 S01 / CRN: 16518","_id":"YP6EIM0l6on5L5AH"}
{"title":"Introduction to Creative Nonfiction","teaser":"Designed to familiarize students with the techniques and narrative structures of creative nonfiction. Reading and writing focus on personal essays, memoir, science writing, travel writing, and other related subgenres. May serve as preparation for ENGL 1180. Writing sample may be required. Enrollment limited. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC.\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Lawrence K. Stanley (Primary) / ENGL 0930 S01 / CRN: 15292","_id":"YSkbT0qm6cuT5Abz"}
{"title":"Advanced Italian I","teaser":"The purpose of this advanced course is to improve speaking and writing skills by offering extensive practice in a variety of styles and forms. Students will discuss various aspects of contemporary Italian culture. Reading, analysis and class discussion of texts (articles, songs, pictures, short stories, movies and television), oral presentations, based on research, and a writing portfolio (compositions, essays, blog and a journal). Prerequisites: ITAL 0400, or placement by examination.","info":"Cristina Abbona-Sneider (Primary) / ITAL 0500 S01 / CRN: 15315","_id":"YTRtEuJtaTZUUG70"}
{"title":"Injury As A Public Health Problem","teaser":"Injury causes significant morbidity and mortality in the U.S and across the globe. However, injuries – both violent and non-violent – are eminently preventable. The overarching objective of this course is to enable students to understand the epidemiology of injury and violence, as well as strategies to improve public health through injury prevention. Prerequisite: PHP 2120 or 2150 (may be taken concurrently) or instructor permission. Enrollment limited to 20 graduate students.","info":"Megan L. Ranney (Primary) / PHP 2170 S01 / CRN: 16689","_id":"YVgEHTcrQ3NUyzfK"}
{"title":"Statistics for Public Policy","teaser":"Covers social and economic statistics and their role in public policy research. Among the topics explored are descriptive and inferential statistics, measurement, sampling, and multivariate analysis. Open to undergraduate students in Public Policy.","info":"PLCY 1300 S01 / CRN: 15690","_id":"YVq9MEybD4j2CX76"}
{"title":"Literary Translation","teaser":"Exercises and investigations in the history, theory, and practice of literary translation. Prerequisite: at least one foreign-language course in literature at 1000-level (or equivalent).","info":"Kenneth Haynes (Primary) / COLT 1710C S01 / CRN: 15886","_id":"YjlJoKso8Rs5TROm"}
{"title":"Heroes and Heroism in Graeco - Roman Antiquity and Beyond","teaser":"Examines the concept of hero, an ancient Greek word, which had a wide variety of meanings and was employed to designate a series of diverse characters of myth.  We will trace the evolution of this idea through a detailed analysis of its uses in Greek and Roman texts, and also contrast its ancient sense with present day conceptions of the hero and heroism.  All readings will be in English.  The course is open to all undergraduates, but preference will be given to juniors and seniors.  Enrollment limited to 25.  WRIT","info":"Pura Nieto Hernandez (Primary) / CLAS 1750H S01 / CRN: 15945","_id":"YnZaHY0uX1cduxyD"}
{"title":"Methods in Religious Studies","teaser":"Intensive introduction to classical and contemporary theories of religion and the principal methods for the study of religion. Junior seminar for religious studies concentrators. Enrollment limited to 25. WRIT LILE","info":"RELS 1000 S01 / CRN: 15824","_id":"YpV3NqNf7KW5bMIf"}
{"title":"The Chinese Novel","teaser":"The purpose of this course is to help us see how the Chinese novel took shape from popular sources, such as storytelling and drama, how the novel drew on history as well as legend, and how its authors and editors express a distinct world view. The class will cover the \"masterworks\" of the Chinese novel. Through intensive reading, students can explore notions of the hero and heroism, moral action and, more broadly, history and literature from a comparative perspective. All readings are in English translation. Limited to 20 freshmen and sophomores, or by instructor permission.","info":"EAST 1050 S01 / CRN: 14988","_id":"YpelhK6FyF7NueFv"}
{"title":"To Be Determined","teaser":"","info":"Justin A. Holmer (Primary) / MATH 2710B S01 / CRN: 15394","_id":"Yqsdnq6RxSNqm8fM"}
{"title":"Introductory Compiler Construction","teaser":"Lexical analysis, syntactic analysis, semantic analysis, code generation, code optimization, translator writing systems. Prerequisites: CSCI 0220 and 0320; 0510 is recommended.","info":"Steven P. Reiss (Primary) / CSCI 1260 S01 / CRN: 16533","_id":"YtBC9OokvVJjoQyX"}
{"title":"Language and Literacy in the Elementary School Classroom","teaser":"An introduction to Comprehensive Literacy instruction in reading and writing, including strategies for teaching interactive read alouds; shared reading and shared writing; phonics and word work; independent reading workshop; guided reading; writer's notebooks; writing workshop; and children's literature via an author study. S/NC.","info":"Maureen Nosal (Primary) / EDUC 2150 S01 / CRN: 14636","_id":"YyIIMslgkRlwn34C"}
{"title":"The Economy of China since 1949","teaser":"This course examines the organization, structure, and performance of the economy of mainland China, with a focus on urban and regional development. The course analyzes the changing economic system including the roles of planning and markets and government economic strategy and policies. The pre-reform period (1949-78) receives attention in its own right, but especially as it influences developments in the market-oriented reform period since 1978.  Topics covered include rural and urban development, industrialization and FDI, housing and land markets, rural-urban migration, income inequality and growth, and the evolving spatial structure of cities. Both analytical and descriptive methods are used. Prerequisite: ECON 1110 or 1130. ECON 1210 and 1410 are helpful but not required. Enrollment limited to 100. DPLL","info":"Louis Putterman (Primary) / ECON 1590 S01 / CRN: 15176","_id":"Z4E5FwwM4q6pG0XB"}
{"title":"Sociology of Organizations Graduate Seminar","teaser":"The sociology of organizations offers a burgeoning and vibrant literature, with relevance not only for self-identified organizational sociologists, but also for scholars in fields as diverse as politics, development, industrial relations, finance, education, health care, and the arts. This seminar offers an intensive exploration of the \"state of play\" in contemporary macro-organizational theory. Shared and individual readings, coupled with weekly discussions and email dialogues, allow students to refine and extend their thinking on a series of important and controversial topics in the recent literature. Although this course has no formal prerequisites, the syllabus is aimed primarily at graduate students who enjoy some prior familiarity with organizational theory, whether in sociology or a kindred discipline. Enrollment limited to 15.","info":"Mark C. Suchman (Primary) / SOC 2960M S01 / CRN: 15453","_id":"Z8r8qZ1oZiS9syS0"}
{"title":"Israel/Palestine: The One State Condition ","teaser":"This course follows the formation and transformation of the Israeli Regime, since its inception in the last years of the British Mandate in Palestine. At the theoretical level, we shall explore the difference between State and regime, ask what is a political regime, how to classify types of regimes and how to determine the regime of any given state. At the historical level we shall reconstruct and question the structural transformations and continuities of the Israeli regime, giving special attention to the impact of Palestinians’ civic status and almost half a century of “occupation” of Palestinian territories. DPLL","info":"Adi Ophir (Primary) / MES 1350 S01 / CRN: 16671","_id":"Z9xmmoaoAXQYmUcb"}
{"title":"Elementary Portuguese","teaser":"Designed for students with little or no preparation in the language. Stresses the fundamental language skills of understanding, speaking, reading and writing. Aspects of Portuguese and Brazilian culture are also presented. Uses a situational/natural approach that emphasizes communication in Portuguese from the very first class. A year course; only in exceptional circumstances is credit given for one semester alone.","info":"Patricia I. Sobral (Primary) / POBS 0100 S01 / CRN: 15535","_id":"ZBGa53j5Is4RGkbA"}
{"title":"The Age of Revolutions, 1760-1824","teaser":"In the middle of the eighteenth century, the Americas belonged to a handful of European monarchies; within a few decades, most of the Americas was composed of independent republics, some of the European monarchs were either deposed or quaking on their thrones.  Usually considered separately, revolutions in British North America, France, Saint-Domingue (Haiti) and Spanish America had diverse local circumstances yet composed a single cycle of intellectual ferment, imperial reform, accelerating violence and, forging of new political communities. We will examine revolutions that helped create the world we live in. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students.  FYS WRIT","info":"Jeremy R. Mumford (Primary) / HIST 0580M S01 / CRN: 14934","_id":"ZBcUIkqlNOYPNmxL"}
{"title":"Phage Hunters, Part I","teaser":"A research-based lab class for freshmen; both semesters are required in the sequence. Students will isolate and characterize a bacteriophage viruses found in the soil. Lab work includes isolation and purification of your own phage, DNA isolation and restriction mapping, and EM characterization of your phage. Several phages will be selected for genome sequencing over winter break, and are annotated in the spring. One hour lecture, discussion, and 3 hours lab per week. Expected: AP Biology or equivalent, and HS chemistry. Instructor permission required. Admittance based on review of applications in the first class.  Limited to 20 freshmen.  FYS","info":"Sarah E. Taylor (Primary) / BIOL 0190R L01 / CRN: 14689","_id":"ZDdpljoAMDkhjGUw"}
{"title":"Postcoloniality and Globalism","teaser":"Seminar focuses on intersections and disjunctions between two currents in contemporary literary and cultural criticism: “postcolonial theory” and “world literature theory.” We read theoretical statements alongside imaginative literature by writers and critics associated with concepts of postcoloniality, globalism, and diaspora. We thereby stage encounters between theoretical and literary texts in order to explore the varied idioms, genres, and philosophical provocations that the authors present. Themes include: nationalism and “national consciousness”; biopower and “bare life”; historicity and temporality. Texts by Fanon, Ghosh, Hall, Jameson, Laclau, Naipaul, Phillips, Said, Spivak, Walcott. Enrollment limited to 15.","info":"Olakunle George (Primary) / ENGL 2900Z S01 / CRN: 15456","_id":"ZQQaayqq80ecR57K"}
{"title":"Principles of Health Behavior and Health Promotion Interventions","teaser":"Examines health behavior decision-making and elements for design of health promotion interventions. Covers theories of health behavior (focusing on primary and secondary prevention), principles of intervention design, and reading of research literature. Emphasizes psychological, social, and proximate environmental influences on individuals' health-related behaviors. Restricted to juniors, seniors, and graduate students. Prerequisite: PHP 0320 or equivalent. Enrollment limited to 25.","info":"Patricia M Risica (Primary) / PHP 1740 S01 / CRN: 15889","_id":"ZTvXNDNUPj0rY8VS"}
{"title":"Topics in American Constitutional Law","teaser":"This course will examine major constitutional controversies within the context of wider debates in political and legal theory. Readings from Supreme Court cases and prominent texts in political/legal theory. Each year we will focus on a different theme and set of constitutional issues.  Topics might include a mix of federalism, separation of powers, privacy, free speech, and abortion.  We will also focus how political and legal theory helps us to consider these topics in tandem\n.","info":"Corey L. Brettschneider (Primary) / POLS 1010 S01 / CRN: 15019","_id":"ZWAiq4cUnoRd3KxS"}
{"title":"Advanced Computer Architecture","teaser":"This classes focuses on advanced computer architecture concepts, including super-scalar processor design, out-of-order execution, branch prediction, multi-core processors, memory hierarchy consistency, GPU architectures, and architecture of large-scale systems such as data centers and supercomputers. Class work expected to include HWs, Labs, and projects. Prerequisite: ENGN 1640 or permission of instructor.","info":"Sherief Reda (Primary) / ENGN 2910A S01 / CRN: 16501","_id":"ZhUnxm7GBP14RAGg"}
{"title":"Functions of Several Variables","teaser":"A course on calculus on manifolds. Included are differential forms, integration, and Stokes' formula on manifolds, with applications to geometrical and physical problems, the topology of Euclidean spaces, compactness, connectivity, convexity, differentiability, and Lebesgue integration. It is recommended that a student take a 1000-level course in analysis (MATH 1010 or MATH 1260) before attempting MATH 1130.","info":"MATH 1130 S01 / CRN: 15378","_id":"ZhvVfRBx1wz8UzHJ"}
{"title":"Japan: Nature, Ritual, and the Arts (EAST 0180)","teaser":"Interested students must register for EAST 0180 (CRN 14994).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"RELS 0195 S01 / CRN: 16349","_id":"ZkhPD7653kOzM8pe"}
{"title":"Research Methods And Design","teaser":"This course is designed to provide CLPS concentrators (psychology/cognitive science/cognitive neuroscience) with a variety of tools needed to conduct research: sources of data, standard  designs (e.g., factorial experimental, correlational, longitudinal), research ethics, and best practices of literature review (e.g., meta-analysis). The course will include lectures, laboratory exercises, data collection, statistical analysis, and presentation of findings in written and oral reports.","info":"Russell M. Church (Primary) / CLPS 1091 S01 / CRN: 16912","_id":"ZydOX8ShzOpB9QDv"}
{"title":"Global Justice","teaser":"Is it unjust that people in some countries have less wealth, worse health, etc., than those in other countries? Does this depend on whether the better off countries partly caused the disparity? Does it depend on whether the worse off are poor, or is it enough that they are relatively worse off? If there are global injustices, what obligations are there, and on whom do they fall, to remedy them? We will study (mostly) recent philosophical work on such questions, including attention to special contexts such as immigration, climate change, poverty, colonialism, secession, intervention, and war.","info":"David Estlund (Primary) / PHIL 0390 S01 / CRN: 15103","_id":"a0qvsfR5Olbc5YLE"}
{"title":"Advanced Electromagnetic Theory","teaser":"Maxwell's laws and electromagnetic theory. Electromagnetic waves and radiation. Special relativity. Prerequisites: PHYS 0470; and MATH 0180, 0200, or 0350; or approved equivalents.","info":"PHYS 1510 S01 / CRN: 15247","_id":"a5klUctTkeCuBChS"}
{"title":"Seminar in Spatial Cognition","teaser":"How do we perceive, learn, remember, and interact with space? This seminar explores spatial knowledge in humans, animals, and robots, its sensory and neural basis, and how it is used to navigate and think spatially. We will investigate how desert ants find their way home, Nobel prize-winning ‘place’ and 'grid' cells, what your cognitive map of campus is really like, differences in spatial ability, and the effects of GPS on human wayfinding.","info":"William H. Warren Jr. (Primary) / CLPS 1580D S01 / CRN: 16836","_id":"aGQjsllfEz4uYYKz"}
{"title":"Senior Honors Seminar in Nonfiction Writing","teaser":"This course is designed for students accepted into the Nonfiction Honors Program. It will be run in workshop format, and will focus on research skills and generative and developmental writing strategies for students embarking on their thesis projects. Weekly assignments will be directed toward helping students work through various stages in their writing processes. Students will be expected to respond thoughtfully and constructively in peer reviewing one another's work. Open to seniors who have been admitted to the Honors Program in Nonfiction Writing. Instructor permission required.","info":"Catherine Imbriglio (Primary) / ENGL 1993 S01 / CRN: 15300","_id":"aHVyytHJMVt1GFLb"}
{"title":"Introduction to Computational Biology","teaser":"A technological revolution has exponentially increased our ability to gather biological data. A host of new methods and types of analysis have arisen to accommodate this dramatic shift in data collection. This course develops the tools necessary to perform research in the post-genomic era. We will learn the programming language, Python, to automate data analysis on whole genome scale data. We will cover common statistical tests used in biology with an emphasis on biological applications. Finally the course will conclude with an interactive approach that teaches bioinformatic/genomic theory and practice. Pre-Requisites: BIOL 0200 plus one additional biology course (BIOL 0470 recommended), or permission from instructors.","info":"Nicola Neretti (Primary) / BIOL 0980 L01 / CRN: 16705","_id":"aKidBWR2RuSh5WrN"}
{"title":"Market and Social Surveys","teaser":"This course covers the theory and practice of survey research. Topics include questionnaire design and formatting; sample design and selection; interviewing techniques; data base design and data entry; and elementary data analysis and report production. Students individually design and conduct a survey on a topic of their choice, and collectively conduct and analyze a sample survey of the Brown student population.","info":"Carrie E. Spearin (Primary) / SOC 1120 S01 / CRN: 15435","_id":"aMo5o1GkqnWlteXA"}
{"title":"Italian Studies Colloquium","teaser":"The Italian Studies Colloquium is a forum for an exchange of ideas and work of the community of Italian scholars at Brown and invited outside scholars. Graduate students present their work in progress, and engage the work of faculty and visitors. They are expected to come prepared with informed questions on the topic presented. Presentations in both Italian and English. Instructor permission required.","info":"ITAL 2820 S01 / CRN: 15594","_id":"acBLaWLWNylV9zfm"}
{"title":"Quantitative Research Methods and Data Analysis","teaser":"The goal of this course is to provide students in the Urban Education Policy course with a foundation and understanding of basic statistical analyses so that they will be able to design and carry out their own research and will be able to use data to inform education policy and practice.","info":"Matthew A. Kraft (Primary) / EDUC 2320 S01 / CRN: 14628","_id":"aeHATSoPWBDBoawd"}
{"title":"Constitutional Law: Governmental Powers","teaser":"This course examines governmental powers under the United States Constitution, addressing the powers of Congress, the President, and the courts, as well as the relationship between the national and state governments. The primary reading materials will be leading Supreme Court cases, supplemented by additional reading materials on history and legal theory. The course will consider the role of the courts in enforcing constitutional principles in a democratic system, as well as theories of constitutional interpretation and constitutional change.","info":"Steven G. Calabresi (Primary) / POLS 1160 S01 / CRN: 15023","_id":"afcrbYl9sFsHrAUf"}
{"title":"Holocaust Literature (JUDS 1820)","teaser":"Interested students must register for JUDS 1820 (CRN 14681).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 1610P S01 / CRN: 16539","_id":"ajWaCaOcimNvuAhv"}
{"title":"Igneous Petrology","teaser":"Study of mineral equilibria in igneous rocks in relation to theoretical and experimental studies in silicate systems. Principles of the origin and evolution of igneous rocks in space and time. Offered alternate years.","info":"Stephen Parman (Primary) / GEOL 2430 S01 / CRN: 16745","_id":"ajb92bRZzxU3eSWI"}
{"title":"Graduate Fiction","teaser":"Advanced practice of the art: a writing seminar, limited to graduate students in Literary Arts. Emphasis is placed on developing a better understanding of the creative process, strategies and forms. Written permission required. S/NC.","info":"Thalia L. Field (Primary) / LITR 2010A S01 / CRN: 15548","_id":"ao3b3CxJwtU8N365"}
{"title":"Philosophy of Law","teaser":"Philosophical examination of the chief classical and contemporary theories of the nature and function of law. Topics include the definition of law, the nature of legal systems, the logic of legal reasoning, the analysis of basic legal conceptions (e.g., of right and duty), legal rules and principles, law and justice, and law and morality. WRIT","info":"David Estlund (Primary) / PHIL 1600 S01 / CRN: 15082","_id":"ap3L1CKfCQr9wG5Y"}
{"title":"Mechanical Technology","teaser":"A basic machine shop course that, with the help of an instructor, teaches students how to fabricate a few simple objects using hand tools and some basic machines. This course is designed to introduce the student to the machining process and environment. Audit only.","info":"Christopher Bull (Primary) / ENGN 0260 S01 / CRN: 16425","_id":"atw0P5IdTjV596mU"}
{"title":"Contemporary Film Theory","teaser":"Major arguments in film theory from the late 1960s to the present, contextualized by contemporaneous intellectual tendencies and selected films. Some key issues: cinematic specificity and signification, the politics of form and style, subjectivity/spectatorship, gender/sexuality, postmodern media, digital theory and cinema. Readings from figures such as Baudry, Bordwell, Deleuze, Doane, Elsaesser, Gunning, M. Hansen, Heath, Jameson, Koch, Manovich, Metz, Mulvey, Pasolini, Rodowick, L. Williams, Willemen, Wollen, etc. Enrollment limited to 15. Prerequisite: one MCM core course.","info":"MCM 1500D F01 / CRN: 14891","_id":"auA7H12HfdQ1g15V"}
{"title":"American Urban History, 1870-1965","teaser":"A survey with a specialized focus exploring American history from an urban frame of reference. Topics include the social consequences of the modern city, politics, reform, and federal-city relations. WRIT","info":"Howard P. Chudacoff (Primary) / HIST 1551 S01 / CRN: 15422","_id":"b0K9ecI6LeIYkBZT"}
{"title":"Advanced Japanese I","teaser":"Continued practice in reading, writing, and speaking. Emphasizes the development of reading proficiency and speaking in cultural contexts. Students read actual articles and selections from Japanese newspapers. Course includes translation, with writing and discussion in Japanese. Films and video tapes are shown as supplementary materials. Prerequisite: JAPN 0400 or equivalent.","info":"Yuko Imoto Jackson (Primary) / JAPN 0500 S01 / CRN: 14963","_id":"b0ZSEzGpspLFn3Ou"}
{"title":"Mixed-Signal Electronic Design","teaser":"ADCs, DACs, switched-capacitor circuits, noise and distortion. Circuit simulation and system design projects. Examples will be used from various biological sensing and instrumentation applications and recent scientific literature. Prerequisite: ENGN 1620 and 1630, or instructor permission. Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Jacob Karl Rosenstein (Primary) / ENGN 2912K S01 / CRN: 16644","_id":"b1QZxWSFdOyR32k4"}
{"title":"Russian Cinema (RUSS 1250)","teaser":"Interested students must register for RUSS 1250 (CRN 15995).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"MCM 1201T S01 / CRN: 16910","_id":"b1t5va4xZEGHBZTB"}
{"title":"Scientific Programming in C++","teaser":"Introduction to the C++ language with examples from topics in numerical analysis, differential equations and finite elements. As a prerequisite, some programming knowledge, e.g., MATLAB projects. The course will cover the main C++ elements: data types; pointers; references; conditional expressions; streams; templates; Standard Template Library(STL); design and debugging techniques.","info":"Gabriel Taubin (Primary) / ENGN 2912B S01 / CRN: 16496","_id":"b2uIyOXXNkdw2Rc0"}
{"title":"Grimms' Fairy Tales","teaser":"\"One doesn't know the sorts of things one has in one's house,\" says the servant girl in Kafka's \"A Country Doctor,\" as a stranger, who will soon act violently towards her, emerges on all fours from an unused sty. The precarious moment of finding more than one seeks in one's midst is among the key motifs of Grimms' \"Household Tales\" that we will trace, following the way they move writers of literature, psychoanalysis, and critical theory. Reading the Grimms among others, we will find: what was \"once upon a time\" is not finished, nor can these uncanny tales be domesticated.","info":"Kristina C. Mendicino (Primary) / GRMN 1440S S01 / CRN: 16278","_id":"b6CQ9sT2sdzOVOSZ"}
{"title":"Social Welfare Policy in the United States","teaser":"Exposes students to the key challenges for social welfare policy-making in the United States. Particular attention will be given to the formulation and administration of prominent welfare, health, and education policies. Course materials also will explore how demographic and economic trends affect the implementation of social welfare policies. Instructor permission required. This course satisfies the Public Policy Problems requirement. WRIT","info":"Valerie A. Cooley (Primary) / PLCY 1700B S01 / CRN: 16618","_id":"b6twEaTgzr5kezXr"}
{"title":"Probability","teaser":"Basic probability theory. Sample spaces; random variables; normal, Poisson, and related distributions; expectation; correlation; and limit theorems. Applications in various fields (biology, physics, gambling, etc.).  Prerequisites: MATH 0180, 0200 or 0350.","info":"MATH 1610 S01 / CRN: 15384","_id":"bAmMAgv74o1ZaZvA"}
{"title":"Crystal Structures and Crystallography","teaser":"The study and experimental analysis of solid structures from crystallography and crystal chemistry viewpoints. Electronic structure of the atom as related to core level chemical analysis techniques in material science, atomic arrangements in solids, form crystallography, crystal symmetry and symmetry of finite objects, and experimental techniques in x-ray diffraction.","info":"Eric Chason (Primary) / ENGN 2490A S01 / CRN: 16500","_id":"bAp90ioWFVDOPv3K"}
{"title":"Introduction to Acting and Directing","teaser":"Explores basic acting/directing concepts from a variety of perspectives including the use of the actor's imagination/impulsivity in the creation of truthful, dramatic performance; the body, as a way of knowing and communicating knowledge; and the voice, as a means of discovering and revealing emotion/thought.  There is a mandatory tech requirement and some evening hours are required. Please go to the TAPS website for specifics on admission and the technical requirement (http://brown.edu/go/TAPS0030).  Enrollment limited to 18 first year students. Instructor permission required. No permission will be given during pre-registration.","info":"Constance M. Crawford (Primary) / TAPS 0030 S01 / CRN: 16123","_id":"bRydJPwGDrQmLYn1"}
{"title":"Short Forms: Masterworks in a Minor Key (HISP 1330Q)","teaser":"Interested students must register for HISP 1330Q (CRN 16668).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 1422D S01 / CRN: 16747","_id":"bYa0KxeRkiVKhMlD"}
{"title":"From Magic Mushrooms to Big Pharma:  Anthropology of Drugs","teaser":"This course considers the social, political, and medical issues associated with illegal and pharmaceutical drugs. Some of the topics we consider are debates over the commercialization and criminalization of hallucinogenic plants such as marijuana, the politics of antiretroviral distribution, the ethics of medical and ethnic tourism, the legacies of colonialism and botanical migrations, \"biopiracy\" and indigenous knowledge, and critiques of modern food production, including the \"locavore movement\" and opposition to genetically modified foods.  Through it all, we consider how the ways people talk and write about these issues affect concrete realities in daily life. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors and seniors. DPLL LILE","info":"Paja L. Faudree (Primary) / ANTH 1880 S01 / CRN: 16203","_id":"bafKGPZzuveHjcB1"}
{"title":"Academic Interactions","teaser":"This course develops the English language skills of first-year international graduate students who are preparing to be teaching assistants. Students improve their fluency and expression of complex ideas in a variety of linguistic situations typical of classroom interactions. Students also increase their control of vocabulary, pronunciation and listening comprehension when communicating with American undergraduates. Instructor permission required.","info":"Mary R. Leuchak (Primary) / EINT 2200 S01 / CRN: 14806","_id":"beMdBWyJsfjMBDrd"}
{"title":"The Nuclear Age (HIST 1974S)","teaser":"Interested students must register for HIST 1974S (CRN 15428).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"SCSO 1701F S01 / CRN: 16313","_id":"bmzMUh52ggUwX74z"}
{"title":"Skin Deep: Reading Race, Reading Form ","teaser":"There is a movement away from symptomatic/paranoid readings of literature. In 2009, Stephen Best/Sharon Marcus pitched this in their call for surface readings, which deals with what is manifest/present in texts, rather than the latent/concealed. I hope to get beyond politically-instrumental readings of literature/to thinking in a sustained fashion about language/form/aesthetics of race. The seminar will divide between reading histories/theories of race (obsession with physical variation as race and technologies of seeing that we use to read race)/working through a range of post-nationalist works of literature/sharpening our understanding of reading as a mean-making event. Limited to Grad Students and seniors.","info":"Ralph E. Rodriguez (Primary) / AMST 2220I S01 / CRN: 16643","_id":"bqozvHOolAd3BYHD"}
{"title":"An Introduction to GIS and Spatial Analysis for Anthropologists and Archaeologists (ANTH 1201)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ANTH 1201 (CRN 16730).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ARCH 1881 S01 / CRN: 16872","_id":"bu9LgpsBz6eDlxRd"}
{"title":"Digital Electronics Systems Design","teaser":"Fundamentals of digital logic design including:  Boolean algebra, gates, truth tables, logic families, flip-flops, finite state machines, memory, and timing. More advanced topics include A-D conversion, binary arithmetic, CPU organization, programmable logic (CPLDs and FPGAs), and VHDL. Extensive laboratory requirement. Not open to first year students; permission required for sophomores.","info":"William R. Patterson III (Primary) / ENGN 1630 S01 / CRN: 16452","_id":"bxfTFclV6YSesxcl"}
{"title":"Jazz Band","teaser":"Half credit each semester. A practical study of jazz from the 1920s to the present through coaching, rehearsals, and performance. Seminars on arranging, ear training, and improvisation are conducted for interested students but the focus is on performance. Enrollment is by audition. Restricted to skilled instrumentalists and vocalists. Instructor permission required.","info":"Matthew Richards McGarrell (Primary) / MUSC 0630 S01 / CRN: 16034","_id":"c013ljSB3srJIAlV"}
{"title":"Voice: Power and Range for the Actor","teaser":"This course is open only to students of the Consortium. It will provide a progression of exercises to free, develop and strengthen the voice as the actor's instrument. The classes focus on relaxation, physical awareness, breath, freeing the channel for sound developing the resonators, releasing the voice from the body, articulation, self-expression, and the link to text and acting.","info":"Stephen Berenson (Primary) / TAPS 2510 S01 / CRN: 11009","_id":"c0DwcmbEGZE9wnHY"}
{"title":"Cervantes and Don Quijote in the Context of Golden Age Spain","teaser":"This course seeks to understand the first part of Don Quijote (1605) within the context of the social, literary and political contexts from which it sprang. We will undertake a close reading of the 1605 text supplemented by secondary readings that focus on such topics as the vogue for the romances of chivalry, the role of the oppressed in Spanish Society in the novel and in Cervantes's Spain, the place of books and reading in Golden Age Spain, etc. The point of departure for the course will be an in-depth consideration of Marcelin Defourneaux's book, Daily Life in Spain in the Golden Age (Stanford UP, latest). Taught in Spanish.  LILE","info":"HISP 1240L S01 / CRN: 16647","_id":"c0dV7bU0NaY95UDU"}
{"title":"Student Teaching: English","teaser":"S/NC.","info":"Laura A. Snyder (Primary) / EDUC 1070A S01 / CRN: 14641","_id":"c95U52e40aSs0739"}
{"title":"Introduction to Classical Hieroglyphic Egyptian Writing and Language (Middle Egyptian I)","teaser":"Much of this two-semester sequence is spent learning the signs, vocabulary, and grammar of one of the oldest languages known. By the end of this introductory year, students read authentic texts of biographical, historical, and literary significance. The cornerstone course in the Department of Egyptology-essential for any serious work in this field and particularly recommended for students in archaeology, history, classics, and religious studies. No prerequisites.","info":"Leo Depuydt (Primary) / EGYT 1310 S01 / CRN: 14848","_id":"cIuSPYf2PCcsCcgf"}
{"title":"Johnny, Are You Queer: Narratives of Race and Sexuality","teaser":"This course is intended as a wide-ranging romp through the fields of queer theory and narratives of race and sexuality. It will move from the 1980s through the present looking at representations of queerness and race in poetry, fiction, creative non-fiction, music, etc. We will investigate the convergences and divergences in the discourses of race and sexuality.","info":"Ralph E. Rodriguez (Primary) / ETHN 1890E S01 / CRN: 15915","_id":"cLmo8XmA0zApKQrX"}
{"title":"Computer Science: An Integrated Introduction","teaser":"CSCI0170/0180 is an introductory sequence that helps students begin to develop the skills, knowledge, and confidence to solve computational problems elegantly, correctly, efficiently, and with ease.  The sequence is unique in teaching both the functional and imperative programming paradigms---the first through the languages Scheme and ML in CSCI0170; the second through Java in CSCI0180.  The sequence requires no previous programming experience.  Indeed, few high school students are exposed to functional programming; hence even students with previous programming experience often find this sequence an invaluable part of their education. \nAlthough students are taught to use programming languages as tools, the goal of CSCI0170/0180 is not merely to teach programming.  On the contrary, the goal is to convey to students that computer science is much more than programming!  All of the following fundamental computer science techniques are integrated into the course material: algorithms, data structures, analysis, problem solving, abstract reasoning, and collaboration.  Concrete examples are drawn from different subareas of computer science: in 0170, from arbitrary-precision arithmetic, natural language processing, databases, and strategic games; in 0180, from discrete-event simulation, data compression, and client/server architectures.","info":"CSCI 0170 L01 / CRN: 16608","_id":"cMlmI8gAStVwcT2F"}
{"title":"Gravestones and Burying Grounds","teaser":"Students examine gravestones and burying grounds as material evidence of American cultural history. Themes include the forms of written language and visual imagery in colonial New England, changing roles of women and minorities in society, historical craft practices, implications of stylistic change, attitudes towards death and bereavement, and the material evidence of discrete cultural traditions. Includes field trips.","info":"Robert P. Emlen (Primary) / AMST 1250B S01 / CRN: 15010","_id":"cOvjfGk2Lg6s0v4L"}
{"title":"Feminist Utopias and Dystopias","teaser":"From the religious overtones and abhorrence of heterosexual sex in the all-female world of Millenium Hall (1762), to the need for a new race of cyborg in Octavia Butler's Lilith's Brood Trilogy (1987-89), to the gender-inflected environmental apocalypse of Margaret Atwood's Oryx and Crake, feminist writers have used their utopian and dystopian fiction to imagine worlds where the standard system of male/female (or even human/machine) does not work.  This course will examine feminist utopias and dystopias across historical periods and within the context of contemporary feminist and queer theory about gender, \"race,\" sexuality, environmental justice, and interspecies communication. Sophomore seminar. SOPH WRIT","info":"Gail E. Cohee (Primary) / GNSS 1201 S01 / CRN: 16304","_id":"cTQPHlzxfW9EpBJB"}
{"title":"Chamber Music Performance","teaser":"Half credit each semester. The practical study of the literature of chamber music through participation in a small ensemble. Regular rehearsals, coaching by department staff, and performances are required. Enrollment is by audition.  Students will be notified of audition results within the first ten days of the semester. Restricted to skilled instrumentalists.  May be repeated for credit.","info":"Paul Schuyler Phillips (Primary) / MUSC 0680 S01 / CRN: 16051","_id":"cToSn32vIRpkdXot"}
{"title":"American Identities: Memoir and Autobiography in the Twentieth Century","teaser":"How do we think about our own place in history?  This writing-intensive seminar examines how individual Americans have explored the relationship between their identity and historical events, and introduces the legitimacy of using individual experiences to understand history.  Themes include the gendering of domestic and public space, the formation of identity within families, class alignments, societal expectations of gender/sexuality, how American exceptionalism manifests itself at the individual level, and narrative (un)reliability.  Our discussions center on autobiographies, memoirs, and films from authors such as Audre Lorde, Harry Crews, Malcolm X, Alison Bechdel, and Tobias Wolff.  WRIT","info":"Christopher Michael Elias (Primary) / AMST 0191T S01 / CRN: 16897","_id":"cV72l9t9STH4He5z"}
{"title":"Transformation of the Research University","teaser":"This seminar will focus on recent transformations of the academic, instructional and administrative character of the elite American research universities. Emphasis will be on selected pressure points (such as research funding, diversity, technology, market influence) that drive change and shape the future.","info":"William S. Simmons (Primary) / UNIV 1700 S01 / CRN: 16207","_id":"cXx29bkmBVIcU5LZ"}
{"title":"Black New Orleans: A Research Seminar","teaser":"Examines the development of a unique African/ American cultural and political identity in New Orleans. The seminar focuses on the development of the Faubourg Tremé, the oldest free black community in the United States, and covers the period from 1718 until 1899.\n Topics include: slavery and resistance; relations between enslaved and free blacks; social and political agitation; and the resulting early development of the nation's Civil Rights movement and\n legislation. There is discussion also of the formation and continued tradition of artists' and artisans'\n guilds; Creole language (e.g., Creole slave songs, proverbs); NOLA relationship to the\n Caribbean and Latin America. Enrollment limited to 20. DPLL","info":"AFRI 1620 S01 / CRN: 16230","_id":"cZ3HgaPC1v1d01nO"}
{"title":"Cardiovascular Engineering","teaser":"In this course, students will learn quantitative physiological function of the heart and vascular system, including cardiac biomechanics and vascular flow dynamics, through lectures and discussion of current scientific literature.  A systems approach will integrate molecular biophysics, cell biology, tissue architecture, and organ-level function into a quantitative understanding of health and disease.  Discussion topics will include pre-clinical regenerative therapies, stem cell ethics, and clinical trials. Prerequisites (all courses completed or concurrent): calculus, differential equations, mechanics of materials, fluid dynamics, and biotransport.","info":"Kareen L. K. Coulombe (Primary) / ENGN 1520 S01 / CRN: 16562","_id":"cdMWehsFUt6fkcbm"}
{"title":"Restoration and Eighteenth-Century Drama","teaser":"After almost two decades of closure, public theaters re-opened in 1660. This new beginning occasioned new plays, new kinds of performance and production, and new intersections between the stage and society. We will study works by Etherege, Wycherly, Congreve, Dryden, Behn, Gay, Lillo, Sheridan, and others. Not open to first-year students.","info":"Melinda Alliker Rabb (Primary) / ENGL 1561K S01 / CRN: 15495","_id":"cf5CC2aqVxSML2Ue"}
{"title":"Sinners, Saints, and Heretics: Religion in Early America","teaser":"This course considers the major people, events, and issues in the history of religion in North America, from pre-contact Native cosmologies to the tumultuous events of the Civil War. Attention will be given to \"religion as lived\" by ordinary people, as well as to the ways that religion shaped (or not) larger cultural issues such as immigration, public policy, social reform, warfare, democracy, slavery, and women's rights. Prior knowledge of religion in North America is not required; there are no prerequisites to this course, and it is open to all students. P  WRIT","info":"Linford Fisher (Primary) / HIST 1511 S01 / CRN: 15419","_id":"ckAVL6e2cQXRO9Rx"}
{"title":"Diplomacy, Economics & Influence","teaser":"This course examines a dozen diplomatic situations and identifies the players, their interests, and their tools -- and how those produced outcomes.Particular attention is paid to economic factors – pressures, incentives, and influences – that contribute to the outcome. By examining these elements students will understand the economic tools of diplomacy and power, and how to wield them. The course concludes with a close look at China's growing role in the world economy and considers how that will change China's role in world affairs. Enrollment limited to 20 Juniors & Seniors. Priority given to IR seniors. WRIT","info":"Richard A. Boucher (Primary) / INTL 1802V S01 / CRN: 16769","_id":"cladov2OggtsqZN0"}
{"title":"Statistical Inference I","teaser":"APMA 1650 is an integrated first course in mathematical statistics. The first half of APMA 1650 covers probability and the last half is statistics, integrated with its probabilistic foundation. Specific topics include probability spaces, discrete and continuous random variables methods for parameter estimation, confidence intervals and hypothesis testing.\nStudents may opt to enroll in 1655 for more in depth coverage of the above topics.  Enrollment in 1655 will include an optional recitation section and required additional individual work. Applied Math concentrators are encouraged to take 1655.\nPrerequisite (for either version): MATH 0100, 0170, 0180, 0190, 0200, or 0350.","info":"Caroline J. Klivans (Primary) / APMA 1650 S01 / CRN: 15801","_id":"cn0VBIvkkxws9zdi"}
{"title":"Modern Science and Human Values","teaser":"Devoted to the critical study of moral problems that have been raised or affected by modern science and technology, with a particular emphasis on problems in bioethics and environmental ethics. Possible topics include abortion, euthanasia, organ transplantation, pharmaceutical enhancement, animal rights, population control, and climate change. Throughout the course we will keep track of recurring questions about obligations, rights, harm, and justice, as well as the various ways in which philosophers have attempted to answer these questions. WRIT","info":"Nina R. Emery (Primary) / PHIL 0060 S01 / CRN: 15085","_id":"cvMYrgW3ir6l7it6"}
{"title":"Investigating Collage","teaser":"No description available. Prerequisite: VISA 0100 or VISA 0110.","info":"Leslie A. Bostrom (Primary) / VISA 1210C S01 / CRN: 16092","_id":"cwPTLaswcVjsJN4d"}
{"title":"Special Topics in Biotechnology Writing","teaser":"This course is open to Biotechnology Masters students not involved in lab-based research. Students choose from a list of topics and faculty mentors in the field of biotechnology. Teams conduct in-depth research and writing, with the goal of producing a final report and presentation equivalent to a professional consultant’s report. Students meet weekly with mentor to monitor progress. Prerequisite: BIOL 0280 and 1120; CHEM 0350/0360 or equivalent. Enrollment limited to 20 students. Instructor permission required. Course is offered in both, Semester 1 and 2, and may be repeated once for credit.","info":"Edith Mathiowitz (Primary) / BIOL 2156 S01 / CRN: 14790","_id":"d1RHoMAgHyWTvTDA"}
{"title":"Introduction to Computer Animation","teaser":"Introduction to 3D computer animation production including story writing, production planning, modeling, shading, animation, lighting, and compositing. Students work independently to learn basic skills, then in groups to create a polished short animation. Emphasis is on in-class critique of ongoing work, which is essential for learning the cycle of evaluating work, determining improvements, and implementing them for further evaluation. Students should attend first class to receive instructor's written permission.","info":"Barbara J. Meier (Primary) / CSCI 1250 S01 / CRN: 15984","_id":"d2IVz7uqNdff58Cl"}
{"title":"Religions of Classical India","teaser":"After a brief look at our earliest evidence, we focus on the three most prominent Hindu goals during the last two millenia- enlightenment, righteous action, and loving, often passionate devotion-and the variety of practices undertaken to realize them. These include study, meditation, music, drama, image worship, asceticism, and nonviolence. Attention to issues of gender, caste, and untouchability. DPLL LILE","info":"RELS 0130 S01 / CRN: 16053","_id":"d8EGuv1nWGXe3FeR"}
{"title":"Extragalactic Astronomy and High-Energy Astrophysics","teaser":"This course provides an introduction to the astrophysics of galaxies, their structure and evolution, with an emphasis on physical introduction of the observations. Underlying physics concepts such as radiative transfer, nuclear reactions and accretion physics will be introduced. Intended for students at the junior level. Prerequisites: PHYS 0270 and PHYS 0470, and either MATH 0190 or MATH 0200, or instructor permission. WRIT","info":"PHYS 1270 S01 / CRN: 15244","_id":"d8SrzrsVo9QQNvWz"}
{"title":"Advanced Fiction","teaser":"The writing of short stories or longer works in progress in regular installments, along with appropriate exercises and reading assignments. See general course description above for course entry procedures for all advanced workshops. Written permission required. S/NC. WRIT\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Meredith Steinbach (Primary) / LITR 1010A S01 / CRN: 15553","_id":"dHrlPBgs832kN3g0"}
{"title":"Catullus","teaser":"We will read all the extant poetry of Catullus with an emphasis on close reading of the Latin text and discussion of linguistic, literary, and cultural problems.","info":"Jeri B. Debrohun (Primary) / LATN 1110S S01 / CRN: 15939","_id":"dJy1MhdIjKdOmgWz"}
{"title":"City Novels","teaser":"This course examines 20th and 21st century novels to consider how these narratives envision the city, its possibilities and limits. How does the city shape how we think, wander, grow up, see and know each other? How does the city divide people? How does the novel imagine ways to bridge those divisions? Readings by Woolf, Wright, Calvino, Adiga, Whitehead. Preference given to English and Urban Studies concentrators. Enrollment limited to 30.","info":"E. Tamar Katz (Primary) / ENGL 0700N S01 / CRN: 15472","_id":"dUyZecyOuELF6nMH"}
{"title":"The Political Economy of African Development","teaser":"This course takes an interdisciplinary approach to introduce contemporary development issues in Africa. Drawing on literatures from political sciences, economics, sociology, it explores the challenges of development in the continent since independence. It investigates the influences of governance, institutions, conflicts and external forces in African development trajectories. This is an applied course that uses theoretical and policy analytical approaches to examine the political and socioeconomic dynamism in contemporary Africa.","info":"Patricia Agupusi (Primary) / DEVL 1550 S01 / CRN: 16701","_id":"dWh5HS4d8P5bfBhS"}
{"title":"Rites of Passage","teaser":"Examines a seemingly universal theme-coming of age-by focusing on texts from disparate periods and cultures. Proposes that notions of \"growing up\" are profoundly inflected by issues of class, gender and race, and that the literary representation of these matters changes drastically over time. Texts from the Middle Ages to the present; authors drawn from Chrétien de Troyes, Quevedo, Prévost, Balzac, Brontë, Twain, Faulkner, Vesaas, Rhys, Satrapi and Foer.  Enrollment limited to 20 first year students.  FYS","info":"Arnold Louis Weinstein (Primary) / COLT 0610D S01 / CRN: 15879","_id":"daZgeXL9AYV9IIhf"}
{"title":"Fueling Change: A Global History of Energy","teaser":"The transition from an energy regime based on biomass and animal muscle to another based on fossil fuels is an epochal transformation whose importance is on a par with the Neolithic transition from hunter-gathering to agriculture. For most of their history, human societies relied on the sun’s energy locked up in plants and animals for their livelihood. In the late eighteenth century, some societies began to transcend the limits of the established energy regime. This course examines the implications of the modern energy transition from the old energy regime to a new one based on fossil fuels around the world.","info":"HIST 1976F S01 / CRN: 16714","_id":"dboFducS2MG98DoW"}
{"title":"Alternatives to Violence","teaser":"We examine nonviolence as a method for resolving serious social conflict. We consider psychological and sociological approaches to understanding why people choose violence, as a precursor to studying theories of nonviolence. We investigate practioners of nonviolence throughout history and analyze nonviolence as a response to such issues as the death penalty, war, and terrorism. WRIT","info":"Gregory C. Elliott (Primary) / SOC 1870E S01 / CRN: 15526","_id":"dc47iVT3V3XG05uT"}
{"title":"Core Readings in Nineteenth Century Europe","teaser":"Provides an introduction to the central issues of nineteenth-century European history. It has two purposes: first, to help you refine your abilities to think historiographically; second, to assist you in preparing for your comprehensive exams. To that end, we will read both standard interpretations and newer scholarship.","info":"Mary Gluck (Primary) / HIST 2970Z S01 / CRN: 14869","_id":"dhcSpwMQQ01ASg8O"}
{"title":"Tolstoy","teaser":"Close readings of Tolstoy's major novels (War and Peace and Anna Karenina, in particular) and shorter narratives with special emphasis on his iconoclastic ideas about art, religion, and society. Considers Tolstoy's formal innovation in a broader historical and cultural context. Lectures and discussion. No knowledge of Russian required.","info":"Svetlana Evdokimova (Primary) / RUSS 1810 S01 / CRN: 16816","_id":"dmg7s2HO3bsQwyNA"}
{"title":"The Performing Arts in Classical South Asia","teaser":"South Asia is home to rich classical traditions in the performing arts – drama, dance, music – which continue to this day. These performative traditions are accompanied by theoretical analyses going back to the Nātyaśāstra attributed to the sage Bharata, (2nd c. BCE-6th c. CE). This course introduces students to these traditions and  theories  to allow for an informed appreciation of the arts of classical South Asia. This course will include reading classical texts in translation and experiencing, analyzing, and discussing recorded performances.  The final portion of the course will  examine Bollywood film against the background knowledge gained throughout the course. DPLL LILE","info":"David Buchta (Primary) / CLAS 0995 S01 / CRN: 16105","_id":"dnXUBQwsXDIZpEZX"}
{"title":"Race, Difference, and Biomedical Research: Historical Considerations (BIOL 1920D)","teaser":"Interested students must register for BIOL 1920D (CRN 15124).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"SCSO 1701E S01 / CRN: 16355","_id":"dyBl7f941hCJ1dlx"}
{"title":"Physical Processes in Geology","teaser":"Introduction to the form and origin of interior and surface features of Earth, with emphasis on understanding the physical processes that produced them. Topics include interior processes (plate tectonics, mountain building, volcanism, earthquakes, and flow of solid rocks) and surface processes (atmospheric and oceanic circulation, flow of rivers, glaciers, and groundwater). Laboratory and field trips arranged. Intended for science concentrators or those wishing in-depth treatment. CAP course. Enrollment limited to 100. After pre-registration, instructor\npermission is required to register or get on wait-list. Please see or email instructor (Jan_Tullis@brown.edu).","info":"GEOL 0220 L01 / CRN: 15959","_id":"e18w9WMPewY4RBVO"}
{"title":"Theory of Probability","teaser":"A one-semester course that provides an introduction to probability theory based on measure theory. The course covers the following topics: probability spaces, random variables and measurable functions, independence and infinite product spaces, expectation and conditional expectation, weak convergence of measures, laws of large numbers and the Central Limit Theorem, discrete time martingale theory and applications.","info":"Hui Wang (Primary) / APMA 2630 S01 / CRN: 15811","_id":"e6M3g5yK9N0Ua71U"}
{"title":"20th Century British Art: Edwardian to Contemporary","teaser":"The field of British art offers a wide view onto the history of art and aesthetics.  This survey of British art in the twentieth century will examine the nation's art, artists, and art movements alongside its current events. Readings will be drawn from periodicals, primary documents (artist's letters and manifestos) and secondary texts (Alloway, Hall, Read and others).  Architecture, literature (Martin Amis, Joseph Conrad, Lynton Kwesi Johnson and others) and music will be considered throughout the course. WRIT","info":"Courtney J. Martin (Primary) / HIAA 0870 S01 / CRN: 14855","_id":"eCh5UyBJh7u07UJ1"}
{"title":"Downtown Development","teaser":"This seminar examines the development and revitalization of the urban core in the United States with a focus on urban planning. Providence is used as a laboratory to explore development from the perspective of the planner, the developer, and city residents. Important concepts are illustrated through field trips, public meetings, and guest speakers. Enrollment limited to 15 during registration. Instructor will select additional 5 students after first day of class. Instructor permission required. WRIT","info":"Robert E. Azar (Primary) / URBN 1870D S01 / CRN: 16616","_id":"eISoe4XqHZqu6yfV"}
{"title":"Policy Analysis and Program Evaluation","teaser":"Broad overview of public policy analysis and program evaluation with emphasis on methodological issues involved in the analysis and assessment of government programs. Illustrations are drawn from a variety of substantive policy areas.","info":"PLCY 2040 S01 / CRN: 15192","_id":"eKwbaD7yrN21ElsG"}
{"title":"Organic Reactions","teaser":"Study of organic reactions and reaction mechanisms. Discussion and analysis of organic transformations. Topics can include arrow pushing strategies and synthetic methods.","info":"Paul Gregory Williard (Primary) / CHEM 2420 S01 / CRN: 14910","_id":"eRCozYo7eGp5sHr9"}
{"title":"Urban Life: Anthropology in and of the City","teaser":"This course examines how anthropologists have worked in the city -- to understand dwelling and lived experience from the center to the margins of society; as well as how anthropologists have contributed to the study of the city -- conceptualizing the city itself in relation to its inhabitants, and working to understand how cities develop, decline, or are sustained. Anchored in key theory, classic texts, and contemporary ethnography, the course traces also the history, present, and possible futures of the discipline. Students learn the methods of urban ethnography, and gain hands-on experience through local field exercises and related writing assignments.","info":"Rebecca L. Carter (Primary) / ANTH 1236 S01 / CRN: 16198","_id":"eTvDPYSDFZUPAdpJ"}
{"title":"Weimarer Klassik","teaser":"The anthropology and aesthetics of Weimar Classicism. Readings of major works by Johann Wolfgang Goethe and Friedrich Schiller, with discussion of selected texts by Herder, Humboldt, and Kant. In German. Prerequisite: GRMN 0600 or permission.","info":"Thomas W. Kniesche (Primary) / GRMN 1320L S01 / CRN: 15971","_id":"eUwCvYTPWPkN8S6k"}
{"title":"Literary Theory I: Continental Aesthetics and the Questions of Politics (COLT 2650M)","teaser":"Interested students must register for COLT 2650M (CRN 15888).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"MCM 2110M S01 / CRN: 16503","_id":"eV8XD1C3rlfB4Vep"}
{"title":"The Nuclear Age","teaser":"This is a course for students interested in questions about the development of atomic weapons, their use on Hiroshima and Nagasaki,  the Cold War arms race that followed, and debates over the risks associated with other nuclear technologies. We will look carefully at the scientific and military imperatives behind the Manhattan Project, the decisions that led to the use of atomic weapons on Japan, and subsequent efforts to reflect on the consequences of those choices. We will also explore how popular protest and popular culture after 1945 shaped our understanding of the terrors and promise of the nuclear age. WRIT","info":"Kerry Smith (Primary) / HIST 1974S S01 / CRN: 15428","_id":"eVR1RtmeqRqeowzP"}
{"title":"Histoire de la langue française:  usages, politiques et enjeux du français","teaser":"A study of the evolution of the French language from the Middle Ages to the present. We will trace the main periods of this linguistic, social, historical and political development. Among topics to be explored: France’s encounter with English from the Norman conquest to the current so-called English “invasion,” the French Revolution’s destruction of dialects (patois), and the status of French in France’s former colonial empire. Through a variety of French and francophone texts we will investigate the  transformations brought about by Feminists and by youth from the banlieues and examine the status of French outside of France.  In French.","info":"Ourida Mostefai (Primary) / FREN 1020A S01 / CRN: 16635","_id":"eW57sFiZUr4izai6"}
{"title":"Civil Liberties: Moral, Political and Legal Approaches","teaser":"This course will examine major constitutional controversies within the context of wider debates in political and legal theory. Readings from Supreme Court cases and prominent texts in political/legal theory. Topics include free speech, privacy, abortion, takings and capital punishment. Prior course work in political theory or philosophy recommended.  Enrollment limited to 20 juniors and seniors concentrating in Political Science. WRIT","info":"Corey L. Brettschneider (Primary) / POLS 1820D S01 / CRN: 15041","_id":"eX0wFZPYd2imDWDQ"}
{"title":"Archaeologies of Text","teaser":"An interdisciplinary seminar that examines the interplay between ancient texts and archaeology in the study of the ancient world. Emphasis will be placed on articulating and analyzing the research methods and assumptions found in case studies set in the ancient Near East, Mediterranean, East Asia, and the Americas. Topics will include: canons of literature as/versus ancient inscriptions; materiality of text; texts on display, in deposits, in archives, in libraries, as refuse; literacy and education; practices of documentation and analysis; writing, language, and ethnicity; historical geography; fakes and forgeries; ancient texts and archaeological ethics. No prerequisites. Intended primarily for graduate students.","info":"Matthew T. Rutz (Primary) / ASYR 2800 S01 / CRN: 14847","_id":"eYHtQeCRkNIwqWzN"}
{"title":"Equity Law Literature Philosophy","teaser":"Justice, rigorously applied, yields injustice. This paradox haunted Western aspirations toward legal and political justice from antiquity to the Renaissance. It necessitated the formulation of a complementary principle, equity, whose job it was to correct or supplement the law in cases where the strict application of it would lead to unfairness. In England, equity was enforced by a separate system of law, and it was a weighty, ambiguous term of great emotional force, with a particular appeal to Shakespeare. After its decline, Dickens and Kafka wrote two of the greatest literary works set in a world without equity.","info":"Kenneth Haynes (Primary) / COLT 0810G S01 / CRN: 15065","_id":"eZW1glFjTFPWDjyp"}
{"title":"Human Development and Urban Education","teaser":"In this course we will learn relevant theories and research in the academic field of Human Development to urban education practice and policy from preschools to high schools. Special emphasis will be placed in areas where there is research convergence and that are relevant to urban populations and settings. Recommended prerequisites: EDUC 0800 or EDUC 1710 or EDUC 1750.","info":"Margary D. Martin (Primary) / EDUC 2340 S01 / CRN: 14634","_id":"eZnIlvSdfipLslhv"}
{"title":"Jews and Revolutions (JUDS 1701)","teaser":"Interested students must register for JUDS 1701 (CRN 15652).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"HIST 1980Y S01 / CRN: 16734","_id":"ebZwR0ZKCxrxHvlB"}
{"title":"Science at the Crossroads (HIST 1825M)","teaser":"Interested students must register for HIST 1825M (CRN 15424).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"SCSO 1390 S01 / CRN: 16393","_id":"elZTx15LKVjzUWSM"}
{"title":"Bureaucracy and Regulation in Comparative Perspective","teaser":"This course will examine the management of government regulatory agencies in different domains of public policy and national contexts.  It will focus on the apparent tension between rules and the probity and equity in the bureaucracy and laissez faire (i.e., an absence of rules) that allows for flexibility and adjustment in the market.  We will pay particular careful attention to rational choice models derived from economics, and their modification by scholars in cognate social sciences, and we will draw examples from different domains including two workplace regulation and government support fro research and development in Europe and the America.","info":"Andrew M. Schrank (Primary) / SOC 2960X S01 / CRN: 16715","_id":"elhYDZlzQXTsAqZ7"}
{"title":"Spain on Screen:  80 Years of Spanish Cinema","teaser":"This course traces major developments in Spanish cinema from silent films of the 1930s to globalized commercial cinema of the 21st century. In this 80-year period, Spain has undergone sweeping political, social, economic, and cultural changes, many of which we see reflected in its cinema. By critically examining films by Spain's most well-known and influential directors – Rey, Berlanga, Buñuel, Bardem, Saura, Erice, Almodóvar – as well as less canonical filmmakers, we will ask what representations of Spain we see on screen in the last eight decades, interrogating notions of nation, race, class, gender, sexuality, and political ideology, among others. Prerequisite: HISP 0730 or 0740. WRIT","info":"Sarah L. Thomas (Primary) / HISP 1290J S01 / CRN: 15709","_id":"emyOC5uOt2KDav3i"}
{"title":"Reading Narrative Theory","teaser":"Narrative is a powerful category of analysis that spans genres, historical periods, media forms, and the distinction between the \"fictional\" and the \"real.\" This course examines major narrative theorists of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.  We will focus on literary examples, such as theories of the folktale and novel but will also consider scholars who interrogate the work of narrative in historiography, in cinema and television, and in extra-literary contexts (in the struggle of political campaigners to “control the narrative” or debates on narrative in gaming, medical research, law, and theory itself). Limited to 20 seniors. Preference to  English concentrators.","info":"Ellen Frances Rooney (Primary) / ENGL 1950G S01 / CRN: 15504","_id":"euDMfsq1WWibF1Oz"}
{"title":"Knowledge Networks and Global Transformation","teaser":"How do refined knowledge and the social relations that organize and distribute it influence changes in the institutions, inequalities and cultural systems and practices that define particular world regions and global formations? And how do global transformations influence the trajectories of knowledge production themselves? We will examine particular knowledge-identified agents, including universities, research institutes, think tanks, and professional associations, to consider why they approach global transformations in the way that they do. And we will consider how particular kinds of global transformations, from the end of the cold war and the transformation of information/communication technology to the last financial crisis, affect knowledge production itself. By exploring intersections between global complexity and reflexivity in this fashion, we hope to increase our own capacities for seeing the world not only as it is, but how knowledge might be used in making better alternatives for the future. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors and seniors. WRIT","info":"Michael D. Kennedy (Primary) / SOC 1871R S01 / CRN: 15441","_id":"f6fCSTUM2Pz3ApY6"}
{"title":"Computational Probability and Statistics","teaser":"Examination of probability theory and mathematical statistics from the perspective of computing. Topics selected from random number generation, Monte Carlo methods, limit theorems, stochastic dependence, Bayesian networks, dimensionality reduction. Prerequistes: A calculus-based course in probability or statistics (e.g. APMA1650 or MATH1610) is required, and some programming experience is strongly recommended.\nPrerequisite: MATH 0100, 0170, 0180, 0190, 0200, or 0350, or equivalent placement.","info":"APMA 1690 S01 / CRN: 15802","_id":"f7QCaJqGmmhy2sON"}
{"title":"Islam in America","teaser":"Lupe Fiasco, the Al-Jazeera News Network, and Mos Def: from films to fiction, poetry and music, contemporary Islam is having an impact on modern culture in unprecedented ways. Islam is often said to be the fastest growing religion in America, and in this class we will study the contemporary life, culture and thought of Muslims in the US. We will begin with exploring Muslims  in the US from its beginnings, as a result of the Atlantic slave trade, through the civil rights movement and the Nation of Islam, Malcolm X and mainstream Sunnis, and conclude with the multicultural present.  DPLL LILE WRIT","info":"Nancy Khalek (Primary) / RELS 0600B S01 / CRN: 16000","_id":"f7vtoYAvKNBRmRkT"}
{"title":"BEO Capstone I: Business Economics Track","teaser":"Designed for BEO Business Economics track seniors, this capstone is open to all BEO students, and builds upon BEO concepts in economics, finance, strategy and markets.  Students form teams to solve existing business problems, simulating groups of consultants.  Projects range from recommending appropriate finance for new investments to project evaluation and pricing of new services.  Student teams have client-mentors.  Students apply analytical frameworks of BEO disciplines to hone writing, presentational, leadership and organizational skills.  Application required to match students to projects.  Project team meetings required outside scheduled lectures. WRIT","info":"BEO 1930C S01 / CRN: 15106","_id":"fGJS3CoRJndyfPO2"}
{"title":"Love Stories","teaser":"What do we talk about when we talk about love? We will see how writers have addressed this question from Shakespeare's day until the present. Readings to include Shakespeare, Austen, the Bronte sisters, Fitzgerald, Hemingway, and contemporary short stories.","info":"James Kuzner (Primary) / ENGL 0100P S01 / CRN: 15466","_id":"fGKmZmqyEe2oO46E"}
{"title":"Orchestra","teaser":"Half credit each semester. A practical study of the orchestra repertory from Bach to the present, offered through coaching, rehearsals, and performances. Enrollment is by audition. Students will be notified of audition results within the first seven days of the semester. Restricted to skilled instrumentalists.  May be repeated for credit.","info":"Paul Schuyler Phillips (Primary) / MUSC 0610 S01 / CRN: 16028","_id":"fHCfgtjqs3PdLYjV"}
{"title":"The Pleasures of the Text","teaser":"Enter the radiance of literature, music and film through devotional  readings, viewings and listening experiences that will result in a series of weekly creative writing experiments. Dissolve into a narrative or sound or image the way a writer might and return from these experiences inspired and changed.  Be prepared for the awe and wonder that only art can afford.   Texts may include stories, poems and/or novels by Adler, Baldwin, the Bible, Coetzee, Cortazar, Gluck, Muller, Munro, Morrison, Pancake, Rankine, Schwartz, Wolf and others. Films by Akerman, Anderson, Kurosawa and Herzog.  Music by classical, jazz and hip hop artists.\n FYS LILE WRIT","info":"Carole Maso (Primary) / LITR 0510C S01 / CRN: 16597","_id":"fHjUFevSGtrapfdd"}
{"title":"Foundations in Epidemiologic Research Methods","teaser":"The overall objective of this course is to provide students with a strong foundation in epidemiologic research methods.  This is the first of a two- or four-course sequence in epidemiologic methods aimed at students who expect to eventually conduct their own epidemiologic research. There will be a strong quantitative focus in this course. By the end of the foundations course, students should be sufficiently familiar with epidemiologic research methods to begin to apply these methods to their own work. Prerequisite: PHP 2507 or 2510 (either may be taken concurrently); the typical student will also have some introductory knowledge of epidemiology.","info":"Yen-Tsung Huang (Primary) / PHP 2150 S01 / CRN: 16682","_id":"fKKBd9np47wMQ7B9"}
{"title":"Biotechnology and Global Health","teaser":"This course examines contemporary biotechnologies used to combat the predominant, worldwide problems in human health. Global health will be addressed from the scientific and engineering perspectives while integrating public health policy, health systems and economics, medical and research ethics, and technology regulation and management. This course is intended for graduate and advanced undergraduate students in biology, engineering, or related fields who have an interest in global health initiatives. Expected background: BIOL 0200 and BIOL 0800, or equivalents. Preference will be granted to graduate students in the Biotechnology and Biomedical Engineering programs. Only for related course credit in Biology, and for theme course credit in Health and Human Biology programs. Enrollment limited to 20. Instructor permission required.","info":"Jacquelyn Youssef Schell (Primary) / BIOL 1070 S01 / CRN: 14772","_id":"fS6vVwRWEM2LeTw7"}
{"title":"Issues in Syntactic Theory (CLPS 1332)","teaser":"Interested students must register for CLPS 1332 (CRN 16483).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"LING 1332 S01 / CRN: 16825","_id":"fYOBsVw03QkvQXLM"}
{"title":"Internship","teaser":"Practical job experience in the public, private, or non-profit sector.","info":"Jennifer A. Slattery-Bownds (Primary) / PLCY 2800 S01 / CRN: 15688","_id":"fbzOTqr6VUK4rULL"}
{"title":"Unacceptable Conclusions: Arguments Against Common Sense","teaser":"Consider three claims: \"Plants obtain energy from sunlight.\" \"The earth will not suddenly lurch out of orbit tomorrow.\" \"Hurting people is morally wrong.\" Probably, we take these claims to be objectively true. And probably, we take ourselves to know them to be true. According to both the relativist and the skeptic, we are wrong. This course introduces students to the two most fundamental challenges to views widely taken to be core tenets of \"common sense.\" We will first consider the challenges in their most general forms and then examine domain specific challenges, with special regard to the domains of science and morality.","info":"Zachary Alexander Barnett (Primary) / PHIL 0300C S01 / CRN: 15592","_id":"fdh2BWMAYUbRGMDN"}
{"title":"Locked Up: A Global History of Prison and Captivity","teaser":"A long history lies behind the millions of men and women locked up today as prisoners, captives and hostages.  Beginning  in antiquity and ending in the present, this course draws on materials from a variety of cultures across the world to explore incarceration's centuries-old past. In examining the experience and meaning of imprisonment, whether as judicial punishment,  political repression, or the fallout of war, the class will ask fundamental questions about liberty as well. History 150 courses introduce students to methods of historical analysis, interpretation and argumentation. This course presumes no previous history courses.","info":"Amy G. Remensnyder (Primary) / HIST 0150C S01 / CRN: 15405","_id":"fgcBnhxeixI8QZBy"}
{"title":"The Invention of Orientalism: Politics and Fictions of the Orient","teaser":"This course will explore the myth of the Orient that develops in Enlightenment Europe in the wake of the extremely popular and influential translations of The Arabian Nights. We will focus on narratives of the encounter between East and West, on the discovery and construction of the Oriental “Other,” and on its representation in the literary and visual culture of the Enlightenment. Particular attention will be paid to the topos of the harem and the theme of oriental despotism. Readings will include Montesquieu’s Persian Letters, Voltaire’s Zadig, Johnson’s Rasselas, Beckford’s Vathek, Lady Montagu’s Turkish Embassy Letters, and other “oriental” tales.","info":"Ourida Mostefai (Primary) / COLT 1814D S01 / CRN: 16666","_id":"fj0Ovyeu0FkGCmCS"}
{"title":"Image Understanding","teaser":"Image processing is a technology experiencing explosive growth; it is central to medical image analysis and transmission, industrial inspection, image enhancement, indexing into pictorial and video databases, e.g., WWW, and to robotic vision, face recognition, and image compression. This senior-level undergraduate course covers theoretical underpinnings of this field and includes a series of practical MATLAB image processing projects. ENGN 1570 is recommended but not required.","info":"Benjamin B. Kimia (Primary) / ENGN 1610 S01 / CRN: 16451","_id":"fvMx1fp1f2xqTdWQ"}
{"title":"Thinking, Planning and Acting Strategically","teaser":"This course will focus on the strategic trends and issues which impact the public and nonprofit sectors and the role of strategic planning and strategic thinking as fundamental tools of public and nonprofit institutions to build high performance organizations, increase the value of their programs and services and enhance problem-solving. This course has been designed to support students in acquiring a mastery of practical skills in strategic planning and strategic thinking.","info":"Mary Jo Kaplan (Primary) / PLCY 2350 S01 / CRN: 15123","_id":"fzxAaQjLNQc13T8k"}
{"title":"Environmental Geochemistry","teaser":"The course will examine the biogeochemical cycling, fate and transport of chemicals in the atmospheric and aquatic environments. Topics such as chemical weathering, natural water pollution and remediation, acid deposition, global warming and air pollution will be examined through natural ecosystem examples from rivers, lakes, estuaries, and ocean. Field trips and laboratory arranged. Prerequisites: CHEM 0100 or 0330, or instructor permission.","info":"Yongsong Huang (Primary) / GEOL 1370 S01 / CRN: 16109","_id":"g0ih9WOWHxwqmDCx"}
{"title":"Econometrics I","teaser":"Advanced introduction to econometrics with applications in finance and economics. How to formulate and test economic questions of interest. The multivariate linear regression model is treated in detail, including tests of the model's underlying assumptions. Other topics include: asymptotic analysis, instrumental variable estimation, and likelihood analysis. Convergence concepts and matrix algebra are used extensively. Prerequisites: ECON 0110 or advanced placement; and ECON 1110 or 1130; and APMA 1650, MATH 1620, or ECON 1620; or equivalent.","info":"Susanne Schennach (Primary) / ECON 1630 S01 / CRN: 15186","_id":"g17cDcpCGaTAefLS"}
{"title":"Artists and Scientists as Partners","teaser":"This course focuses on current research on and practices in arts and healing, with an emphasis on dance and music for persons with Parkinson's Disease (PD) and Autism (ASD). Includes guest lecturers, readings, field trips, and site placements. Admission to class will be through application in order to balance the course between self-identified artists and scientists and those primarily interested in PD and those primarily interested in ASD. Enrollment limited to 30.","info":"Julie A. Strandberg (Primary) / TAPS 1281W L01 / CRN: 16149","_id":"g42VGlmw0QBhyVl1"}
{"title":"Murder Ink: Narratives of Crime, Discovery, and Identity","teaser":"Examines the narrative of detection, beginning with the great dramatic whodunit (and mystery of identity) Oedipus Rex. Literary texts which follow a trail of knowledge, whether to establish a fact (who killed Laius?) or reveal an identity (who is Oedipus?) follow in Sophocles' footsteps. We read Sophocles' intellectual children. Readings include: Hamlet, The Murders in the Rue Morgue, The Woman in White, and other classic novels and plays. We also analyse seminal films of the genre, including Laura and Vertigo. Will include the twentieth-century detective story, with particular attention to women writers and the genre of the female private eye.","info":"Molly Ierulli (Primary) / COLT 0610L S01 / CRN: 15064","_id":"g5zT5iiUDWV3OLzR"}
{"title":"Intermediate Microeconomics","teaser":"Tools for use in microeconomic analysis, with some public policy applications. Theory of consumer demand, theories of the firm, market behavior, welfare economics, and general equilibrium. Prerequisite: MATH 0060, 0070, 0090, 0100, 0170, 0180, 0190, 0200, or 0350; and ECON 0110; or advanced placement.","info":"James D Campbell (Primary) / ECON 1110 S01 / CRN: 15149","_id":"g6M4IRUqWXuMZThi"}
{"title":"Ancient Maya Writing","teaser":"Nature and content of Mayan hieroglyphic writing, from 100 to 1600 CE. Methods of decipherment, introduction to textual study, and application to interpretations of Mayan language, imagery, world view, and society. Literacy and Mesoamerican background of script. LILE","info":"Stephen D. Houston (Primary) / ANTH 1650 S01 / CRN: 16201","_id":"g9OzTk9wjGBBG4hB"}
{"title":"Business Chinese","teaser":"Business Chinese focuses on practical language skills that are most useful in business interactions in Chinese-speaking communities. Classroom activities are  largely based on authentic documents and correspondence as well as a textbook. Through intensive practice in the listening, speaking, reading and writing of the Chinese language for business purposes, this course aims at enhancing students' linguistic knowledge in a business context.  Classes are conducted in Chinese. Prerequisite: CHIN 0800 or instructor permission. Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"Yang Wang (Primary) / CHIN 0920D S01 / CRN: 14995","_id":"gAsRXR1XLCiUiXyA"}
{"title":"Program Evaluation","teaser":"Designed to equip graduate students with the knowledge and tools needed to become critical consumers of evaluation research and to conduct evaluations of various social programs and policies. Following an introduction to the field of program evaluation, the course will address specific topics including: logic models, process evaluations, experimental and quasi-experimental designs for outcome evaluations, and alternative data sources. Class discussions and assignments will utilize evaluation examples from a variety of substantive policy areas. Prerequisite: PPAI 2030. Open to graduate students only.","info":"Valerie A. Cooley (Primary) / PLCY 2050 S01 / CRN: 15695","_id":"gCAHhqjcoinzs8Nc"}
{"title":"Economic Development and Social Change","teaser":"Emphasis on understanding the interrelations among economic, political, and cultural aspects of change in developing countries. The experience of currently developing nations is contrasted to that of nations which industrialized in the 19th century. Compares the different development strategies which have been adopted by currently developing nations and their consequences for social change.","info":"Paget Henry (Primary) / SOC 0150 S01 / CRN: 16819","_id":"gFn98AfOEUSOdr2z"}
{"title":"Indians, Colonists, and Africans in New England (ANTH 1624)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ANTH 1624 (CRN 16200).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ARCH 1054 S01 / CRN: 16735","_id":"gHGHBbUARC4g7n96"}
{"title":"Policy Implementation","teaser":"What happens after elected officials, courts, and bureaucrats make policy decisions? What affects whether\n those policies produce expected changes? What contributes to policy success or policy failure? What do\nsuccess and failure mean?This course is designed to address these questions and help you learn about:\n• policy outcomes by considering why policies yield both intended and unintended results\n• policy design by considering the relationship between policy aims, policy instruments, implementers’\ncapabilities, and the political, institutional, and organizational environments in which implementers\nwork \n• policy problems by considering sources of social dilemmas\n• process by considering dimensions of policymaking beyond legislative, executive, or judicial\nintent","info":"Susan L. Moffitt (Primary) / PLCY 2160 S01 / CRN: 15691","_id":"gHqc4bSgbXYhFYTe"}
{"title":"Environmental Economics and Policy","teaser":"Economic analysis of environmental issues in industrialized countries with an emphasis on the implications for designing appropriate policy measures. Topics include: the valuation of environmental goods; the basic theory of economic markets, market failure, and the sources of any failure; private and government solutions to market failure; the role of uncertainty in policy-making; and open trade environments and trans-boundary pollution, on a national and global scale. Applications to issues such as climate change, land use, air and water pollution, and alternative energy. Prerequisite: ECON 1110 or 1130.","info":"Sriniketh S. Nagavarapu (Primary) / ENVS 1350 S01 / CRN: 15677","_id":"gJtvLho8ZFbgwhjB"}
{"title":"Advanced Poetry","teaser":"Course work includes a body of exercises, close reading of poetry, workshop conversations and conferences. See general course description above for course entry procedures for all advanced workshops. Instructor permission required. S/NC. WRIT\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Carolyn D. Wright (Primary) / LITR 1010B S01 / CRN: 15558","_id":"gLBaqWTmHg1qKW40"}
{"title":"New Worlds, New Subjects: American Fiction at the Dawn of the Twentieth Century","teaser":"In 1900, the historian Henry Adams declared, Americans lived in a world so radically transformed that “the new American … must be a sort of God compared with any former creation of nature.” This new world had many progenitors: Darwin’s theory of evolution; Nietzsche’s theory of the will; Freud’s theory of the unconscious; the rise of the mass media; the industrial production line; the triumph of consumerism; mass immigration; Jim Crow; the New Woman. This class reads works of fiction from the turn-of-the-century in the context of these transformations. Writers include Freud, Nietzsche, Stephen Crane, Henry James, and Edith Wharton.","info":"Stuart Burrows (Primary) / ENGL 0510G S01 / CRN: 15470","_id":"gP7SCaNoT6g1JFca"}
{"title":"The Making of Modern East Asia","teaser":"This course examines Asia in the shaping of the modern world, from competing definitions of empires circa 1800 to the rise of the notion of the twenty-first as a \"Pacific Century.\" It investigates the definition(s) of Asia as a world region, explores transnational interactions and emphasizes Asians as historical actors via written, visual and aural sources. Events are placed in the context of key historical paradigms, including varying definitions of modernity, the rise of the nation-state, birth of mass politics, new mechanisms of war, the language of self-determination, changing views of gender, shifting types of media and consumption, etc.  WRIT","info":"Rebecca A. Nedostup (Primary) / HIST 0218 S01 / CRN: 14893","_id":"gSKS0cKnVQa6la8L"}
{"title":"Introduction to Methods in Epidemiologic Research","teaser":"Epidemiology quantifies patterns and determinants of human population health, with a goal of reducing the burden of disease, injury, and disability. An intensive first course in epidemiological methods, students learn core principles of study design and data analysis through critiques of published epidemiological studies as well as hands on practice through weekly exercises and assignments. This is a graduate-level course aimed at masters and PhD students. The course is not open to first year students or sophomores but may be available for advanced undergraduates with the instructor's permission.","info":"Mark Lurie (Primary) / PHP 2120 S01 / CRN: 16685","_id":"gUmKcLrD9NMT0gDN"}
{"title":"Topics in Functional Analysis","teaser":"Infinite-dimensional vector spaces with applications to some or all of the following topics: Fourier series and integrals, distributions, differential equations, integral equations, calculus of variations. Prerequisite: At least one 1000-level course in Mathematics or Applied Mathematics, or permission of the instructor.","info":"Alan Landman (Primary) / MATH 1270 S01 / CRN: 15380","_id":"gkdxJ6M4kRsRZscz"}
{"title":"Public Economics I","teaser":"This course covers core issues in the design of optimal government policies, and the empirical analysis of those policies in the world.  In addition, this course will familiarize students with the basic empirical methods and theoretical models in applied microeconomics.  Emphasis is placed on connecting theory to data to inform economic policy.  Specific topics include efficiency costs and incidence of taxation, income and corporate taxation, optimal tax theory, tax expenditures and tax-based transfer programs, welfare analysis in behavioral models, and social security and retirement policy.","info":"John N Friedman (Primary) / ECON 2485 S01 / CRN: 16646","_id":"gn0gdwq8fc1RBQuI"}
{"title":"The Teaching and Practice of Writing: Writing Fellows Program","teaser":"For students accepted as Writing Fellows, this course offers the study of literary essays and composition theory to help develop their own writing with a critical awareness of the elements of an essay. Students will write essays throughout the semester and will confer with each other for every paper, thereby gaining experience in peer tutoring and becoming better writers through the help of an informed peer. They will also respond to the writing of a cohort of students in another designated Writing Fellows class. Enrollment is restricted to undergraduates who have been accepted into the Writing Fellows Program in the preceding July. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC.","info":"ENGL 1190M S01 / CRN: 15400","_id":"goGsuyHLeNmEQx4T"}
{"title":"Epics of India (CLAS 0820)","teaser":"Interested students must register for CLAS 0820 (CRN 15925).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 0711A S01 / CRN: 16339","_id":"gpsScivj8YJ8CwXq"}
{"title":"Intermediate French I","teaser":"A semi-intensive elementary review with emphasis on all four skills (listening, speaking, reading and writing). Class activities include drills, small group activities, and skits. Class materials include an audio CD, videos, a French film, short stories, and various other authentic documents. Prerequisite: FREN 0200 or placement (Previous experience with French is required to take this class). Four meetings per week plus a 50-minute conversation section with TAs. Instructor permission required.","info":"Justin Izzo (Primary) / FREN 0300 S01 / CRN: 15571","_id":"gqETEt278KhIb4zc"}
{"title":"Historical Archaeology: From Colony to City","teaser":"Examines historical archaeology as a complex field of inquiry that engages multiple sources of evidence and incorporates a wide range of theoretical and methodological approaches. The seminar will consider the range of evidence available to historical archaeologists, and draw on examples from colonies and cities around the world to explore how the richness and diversity of the evidence is used.","info":"Patricia E. Rubertone (Primary) / ANTH 2540 S01 / CRN: 16879","_id":"gqHyTf93YLFptQz5"}
{"title":"Form and Theory of Fiction","teaser":"\"Form and Theory of Fiction\" offers an exploration of narrative theories directed particularly at creative writers, in conjunction with a hands-on examination of contemporary fictional narrative practices. Theoretical readings include historical essays on fiction and work by Gaston Bachelard, Mieke Bal, Gilles Deleuze, and others. Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Brian K. Evenson (Primary) / LITR 1230E S01 / CRN: 16857","_id":"gtXaX8nWCwnEr1y8"}
{"title":"TRI-Lab on Climate Change and Environmental Justice in Rhode Island—Part 2","teaser":"The TRI- Lab (Teaching, Research, Impact) on Climate Change and Environmental Justice in Rhode Island will be taught by a team including two experts from the RI state Department of Health. It will investigate ways to reduce the climate change-related public health risks to vulnerable individuals in the West End neighborhood of Providence, and increase the capacities of this neighborhood to respond to climate change threats. Content topics to be covered include: projected climate change impacts in RI; public health risk assessment; risk outreach and communications strategies; state and federal policies, design and evaluation of adaptive responses; community-based research methods.","info":"J. Timmons Roberts (Primary) / ENVS 1501 S01 / CRN: 15911","_id":"gtrllMtJGx8xx275"}
{"title":"True Stories","teaser":"This class will allow confident writers to explore and develop their creative nonfiction writing. We'll focus on two structures--nonfiction narratives and essays--with occasional forays into other forms. Students will work simultaneously on several small assignments and two larger, self-directed pieces. Readings will include cultural reportage, lyric memoir, science and nature writing, standard and hybrid essays. Enrollment limited to 17. Writing sample required. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC.","info":"Kate J. Schapira (Primary) / ENGL 1050B S01 / CRN: 15595","_id":"guPZq2g54tbzZzjj"}
{"title":"Basic French","teaser":"This is the first half of a two-semester course. Four meetings a week for oral practice. One hour of work outside of class is expected every day (grammar/writing, oral practice, reading). Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"Annie J. Wiart (Primary) / FREN 0100 S01 / CRN: 15565","_id":"guU4rp3N5ZCciwr6"}
{"title":"Introduction to Public Humanities (AMST 2650)","teaser":"Interested students must register for AMST 2650 (CRN 15016).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ARCH 2553 S01 / CRN: 16738","_id":"gyqaLCyuSKcBXGwc"}
{"title":"Intermediate French II","teaser":"Continuation of FREN 0300 but may be taken separately. A four-skill language course that stresses oral interaction in class (three meetings per week plus one 50-minute conversation section). Materials include audio activities, film, and a novel. Short compositions with systematic grammar practice.  Prerequisite: FREN 0300, FREN 0200 with permission, or placement.","info":"FREN 0400 S01 / CRN: 15574","_id":"h7GpnB6ordB3otN7"}
{"title":"Thesis Preparation","teaser":"For graduate students who have met the tuition requirement and are paying the Registration Fee to continue active enrollment while preparing a thesis.","info":"AFRI 2990 S01 / CRN: 14533","_id":"h81X2MsWlDK60ptm"}
{"title":"Coastal Ecology and Conservation","teaser":"Enables students to master fundamental ecological concepts and explore how this knowledge can be used to inform conservation and management. Students will develop scientific skills and experience the challenges of coastal conservation science through both case studies and field trips, including a mandatory overnight trip. Suitable for students with at least some biology background; the course is aimed at first and second year undergraduates. Expected background: BIOL 0200 or equivalent. Enrollment limited to 15; instructor permission required.  WRIT","info":"Mark D. Bertness (Primary) / ENVS 0455 S01 / CRN: 15674","_id":"hBDN5ZrmQ6ZqgeC4"}
{"title":"When Leaders Lie: Machiavelli in International Context","teaser":"This course examines the writing of Niccolò Machiavelli, a Renaissance author praised and condemned for his insistence on analyzing the realities of politics, rather than the ideals of political behavior. Machiavelli's view of the tenuous relationship of ethics to politics has cast him as the founder of political science and the proponent of \"consequential morality\" or the notion that the ends justify the means. We will also examine precedents for his ideas  and conclude by examining the relevance of Machiavelli's insights for understanding political practices and ethics in the twenty-first century. LILE WRIT","info":"Caroline Castiglione (Primary) / ITAL 0981 S01 / CRN: 15245","_id":"hBTSF1pX5l2VJ8cF"}
{"title":"Historical Crime Fiction ","teaser":"There is almost no time period that has not been covered by historical crime fiction. From ancient Egypt and Rome to 18th century China, historical crime fiction has complemented and contested our knowledge of history. In this seminar, we will do some extensive time travel and explore how crime fiction explores the past and challenges our understanding of bygone times. Readings of texts by Ellis Peters, Umberto Eco, Peter Tremayne, Lindsey Davis, Alan Gordon, Robert van Gulik, Laura Rowland, among others. LILE FYS","info":"Thomas W. Kniesche (Primary) / GRMN 0750F S01 / CRN: 16241","_id":"hHWgwLD5WyCG3SnX"}
{"title":"Art of the Book","teaser":"Will examine the book, structurally and conceptually, as artist's medium. Students will learn the materials, tools and techniques of making books, as they explore the expressive and narrative possibilities of the book form. Topics and projects may include digital imaging, combining text and image, traditional binding or digital publishing.  Pre-requisite: VISA 0100 or 0110 or by permission of instructor. This course restricted to 15 VISA Concentrators, and others by permission of the instructor.  10 seats available during pre-registration. Students who are not admitted during pre-registration or were unable to pre-register should attend the first meeting.","info":"Lara A. Henderson (Primary) / VISA 1240 S01 / CRN: 16094","_id":"hHlSn3zxVfnwDUOb"}
{"title":"Introduction to Computation for the Humanities and Social Sciences","teaser":"Introduces students to the use of computation for solving problems in the social sciences and the humanities. We will investigate a series of real-world problems taken from the news, from books such as Freakonomics, and from current research. Topics covered include data gathering, analysis, and visualization; web-based interfaces; algorithms; and scripting. Enrollment limited to 20. Instructor permission required. LILE\nPlease go to https://docs.google.com/a/brown.edu/forms/d/1qiv9SC_KmB_yeP5SWbdYLciyJx_... to be added to the waitlist.  You must use your Brown login to access the waitlist; requests to give access to non-Brown addresses will be ignored.","info":"CSCI 0931 S01 / CRN: 16549","_id":"hKtJ0rC9LXmjIp5K"}
{"title":"Economics of Labor and Population","teaser":"This course examines identification issues in empirical microeconomics.  Focus on the sensible application of econometric methods to empirical problems in economics and policy research -- particularly labor and population economics.  The course examines issues that arise when analyzing non-experimental data and provides a guide for tools that are useful for applied research.  The course also emphasizes how a basic understanding of theory and institutions can help inform the analysis.  By the end of the course, students should have a firm grasp of the types of research designs and methods that can lead to convincing analysis and be comfortable working with large-scale data sets.","info":"Kenneth Chay (Primary) / ECON 2320 S01 / CRN: 15865","_id":"hSHf25h7eRZCMm6s"}
{"title":"Prophets and Priests in Exile: Biblical Literature of the 6th Century BCE","teaser":"The exile of Judah's elite to Babylon elicited profound and conflicting literary responses. We will undertake a literary and historical analysis of a number of the most important works produced in response to the crisis of exile, including Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Second Isaiah, Lamentations, Psalm 137, the Priestly Writing, and the work of the exilic deuteronomists. Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Saul Olyan (Primary) / JUDS 1690 S01 / CRN: 15654","_id":"hT2fe8yn6gPinlmF"}
{"title":"The City: An Introduction to Urban Studies","teaser":"What is special about urban life? How and why do cities differ? How has the way we think about the city changed over time? Can we solve urban problems? This course offers an interdisciplinary approach to the history, physical design, spatial form, economy, government, cultures, and social life of cities in the U.S. and beyond. DPLL LILE WRIT","info":"Dietrich Neumann (Primary) / URBN 0210 S01 / CRN: 16160","_id":"hUKbrMkgKggEjAMX"}
{"title":"Organic Chemistry Lab","teaser":"Please see course description for CHEM 0360.","info":"Kathleen M. Hess (Primary) / CHEM 0360L L03 / CRN: 16383","_id":"hVmrjNGm14tIglkU"}
{"title":"Research Workshop","teaser":"Group research projects centering on topics organized by the instructor. Students will be organized into small teams that will undertake research projects such as policy analysis, evaluation studies, organizational assessments, or data projects. Results of these projects will be presented in the seminar.","info":"William Allen (Primary) / PLCY 2900 S01 / CRN: 15700","_id":"hVnRJkxJfwrRevMV"}
{"title":"Skepticism and Knowledge","teaser":"What is knowledge?  What is the extent and basis of one's knowledge about physical objects, other people, oneself, the future, morality, and religion? WRIT","info":"Felicia Nimue Ackerman (Primary) / PHIL 0030 S01 / CRN: 15090","_id":"hWQGB28TgSQ63XXt"}
{"title":"Introduction to Sumerian","teaser":"Over five thousand years ago the first cities emerged in southern Iraq, and around that same time writing was invented, most likely to record the language we now call Sumerian. Even after it was no longer spoken, Sumerian became a powerful conduit for the region's cultural heritage, preserving its literature and religious traditions for millennia. In this course students will learn the fundamentals of Sumerian grammar, develop a basic working vocabulary, and explore the cuneiform script through weekly readings in original texts. Selections will come from royal inscriptions, court cases, myths, magical incantations, and even ancient schoolwork. No prerequisites.","info":"ASYR 1400 S01 / CRN: 16859","_id":"hWdWvV5pWZb75EtM"}
{"title":"Mars, Moon, and the Earth","teaser":"Space exploration has revealed an astonishing array of surface features on the planets and their satellites. Why are atmospheres on the planets different from Earth's atmosphere? Do other planets represent our past or future environment? Is there life on other planets? The planets and their histories are compared to gain insight and a new perspective on planet Earth.","info":"James W. Head III (Primary) / GEOL 0050 S01 / CRN: 15957","_id":"ha3i9qM7yxKowbIC"}
{"title":"Introduction to International Politics","teaser":"This course provides a basic introduction to the central theoretical perspectives and debates in international relations. The second part of the course applies these models to current problems in international relations, including globalization, state failure, humanitarian intervention, NGOs, terrorist networks, environmental issues, and possible future change in international politics.","info":"Jordan N. Branch (Primary) / POLS 0400 S01 / CRN: 15018","_id":"hbDemlBl3gBBBxf9"}
{"title":"In Ruins: Traces of the Past in the Present","teaser":"Ruins -- the debris and skeletons of monuments from the past -- constitute the leftovers of people and places that once were. Yet archaeologists have not thought critically about this seemingly essential concept. Ruins and ruination are fundamental to deeper understandings of culture contact, the rise and fall of civilizations, state power and political factionalism, urbanism, colonialism, capitalism, and deindustrialization. This course will examine, across a broad geographic and temporal scope, ruins as things, as well as ongoing processes, that affect the landscape.","info":"Matthew Reilly (Primary) / ARCH 2425 S01 / CRN: 16906","_id":"hbZGqxBI4sxrjZSp"}
{"title":"Social Entrepreneurship","teaser":"This course introduces students to social innovation and social entrepreneurship and engages them in identifying significant issues, problems, tools, strategies and models that drive bold solutions to complex contemporary problems. Students understand the competencies that are needed to develop transformative solutions to pressing social issues in society.. Enrollment limit is 40. Submit by 5pm on Friday, September 11, 2015 a required application here: http://goo.gl/forms/iawnwhGVRo You must attend the first class on Thursday, September 10, 2015. Accepted students will be notified on September 14. Students who do not attend the second class on Tuesday, September 14th will forfeit their spot in class.","info":"Alan D. Harlam (Primary) / PLCY 1910 S01 / CRN: 16862","_id":"hbnZKEXbZkVOyPgt"}
{"title":"Women and Families in the Ancient Mediterranean (HIAA 1302)","teaser":"Interested students must register for HIAA 1302 (CRN 16271).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ARCH 1518 S01 / CRN: 16744","_id":"hbtjQYvLIa5k5zQ0"}
{"title":"Elementary Hebrew","teaser":"An introduction to the skills of reading, writing, and conversing in contemporary Israeli Hebrew. Students also read Hebrew texts adapted for their level of Hebrew based on biblical, rabbinic, and modern Hebrew literature, which introduce them to the approaches of Hebrew writers in various periods and to a variety of cultural issues. If registration is closed, please contact the professor and a wait list will be created. This is the first half of a year-long course whose first semester grade is normally a temporary one. Neither semester may be elected independently without special permission. Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Ruth Adler Ben Yehuda (Primary) / JUDS 0100 S01 / CRN: 14671","_id":"hf4ZSjO1EDUPft7E"}
{"title":"Television, Gender, and Sexuality","teaser":"This course investigates how television produces and reproduces constructions of gender and sexuality through its institutional form (as it maps relations between the public and the private, the domestic and the social, the inside and the outside), narrative patterns (as it circulates family romances, links gender and genre, and mediates sexual and social tensions), and spectatorial relations (as it variously addresses viewers as sexed and gendered subjects, consumers and commodities, familial and defamiliarized viewers). DPLL","info":"MCM 1501O F01 / CRN: 14895","_id":"hgLYyHGhMiBqUa7U"}
{"title":"Targumic Aramaic","teaser":"Introduction to Targumic Aramaic grammar with readings from Targum Ongelos. Assumes knowledge of Hebrew.","info":"RELS 2150 S01 / CRN: 16003","_id":"hpxzmqelABpr4Wdg"}
{"title":"Comparative Approaches to the Literatures of Brazil and the United States","teaser":"Brazil and the United States have much in common: continental territories, huge natural resources, dynamic economies and multi-ethnic populations. Yet, their histories and cultures are distinctive and unique, as suggested in Vianna Moog's classic symbolic contrast between the Brazilian bandeirante and the American pioneer. We will undertake a comparative study of the two countries' literatures over the past eighty years with an eye towards exploring contextual, thematic and technical analogies as well as differences. Faulkner, Ramos, Lispector, Morrison, Rosa, Scliar, DeLillo, Carvalho, and Doctorow. Some attention to music, film and the visual arts. Enrollment limited to 15. Conducted in English. FYS WRIT","info":"Luiz Fernando Valente (Primary) / POBS 0850 S01 / CRN: 16267","_id":"hwJKObK9LKofnc5P"}
{"title":"Le Roman libertin: approches critiques","teaser":"We will attempt to study the evolution of the different genres of the libertine novel in the 18th century: roman de séduction, the conte, roman de la prostituée. We will also examine how current approaches around issues of gender, sexuality, pornography allow for new contextualization of that novel. Authors to be read are Crébillon fils, Duclos, Godard d'Aucour, La Morliére, Boyer d'Argens, Denon and Laclos.  Taught in French.","info":"Pierre Saint-Amand (Primary) / FREN 2150C S01 / CRN: 16165","_id":"i3iWTzzv3e77ysiJ"}
{"title":"Theory of Tonal Music","teaser":"Prerequisite to music concentration. For students with knowledge of rudiments of music, including scales, intervals, key signatures, rhythm, and meter. Knowledge of keyboard strongly recommended. Intensive study of voice leading and tonal harmony; analysis, ear training, sight singing, keyboard exercises. An entrance exam will be administered in Orwig 315 at the first regular class meeting. Students intending to enroll in MUSC 0550 must pass this test. Experienced instrumentalists or singers who have facility sight reading music normally place into MUSC0550. MUSC0400 is appropriate for students who need training in the rudiments to prepare for MUSC0550. MUSC0550 is prerequisite to MUSC0560.","info":"Arlene M. Cole (Primary) / MUSC 0550 L01 / CRN: 16021","_id":"i7feV7y4gleU06fq"}
{"title":"Neuropharmacology and Synaptic Transmission","teaser":"Synaptic transmission will be studied from a biochemical and pharmacological point of view. We will explore the factors regulating neurotransmitter synthesis, storage, release, receptor interaction, and termination of action. Proposed mechanisms of psychoactive drugs and biochemical theories of psychiatric disorders will be examined. Prerequisites: NEUR 0010 and BIOL 0200 or the equivalent.","info":"Robert L. Patrick (Primary) / NEUR 1670 S01 / CRN: 15815","_id":"iCJuyx8jGhs2elrS"}
{"title":"Race and Remembering","teaser":"This junior seminar engages debates in Ethnic Studies, History, Gender Studies, and the Public Humanities that grapple with the relationship between historical narratives, memory, and social relations of power. Students will examine current tensions in national memory. Each year the topic of this course will change to consider racial formation through alternating social and cultural institutions. This semester we will consider the history of racial formation through encounters with the judicial system, with policing practices, with detention, and incarceration. Students will collaborate to make these histories publicly accessible using methods in public humanities. DPLL LILE WRIT","info":"Monica M. Martinez (Primary) / AMST 1700D S01 / CRN: 16265","_id":"iE80UzziXZ8oIXoa"}
{"title":"Management of Industrial and Nonprofit Organizations","teaser":"Exposes students to the concepts and techniques of management. Topics include marketing, strategy, finance, operations, organizational structure, and human relations. Guest lecturers describe aspects of actual organizations. Lectures and discussions.","info":"Barrett Hazeltine (Primary) / ENGN 0090 S01 / CRN: 16412","_id":"iEqyD7S8EoPPFfci"}
{"title":"International Environmental Law and Policy","teaser":"Introduces students to principles of international environmental law and examines how international organizations, national governments and non-state actors interact to address human impacts on the global environment. Considers effects of treaties, trade agreements and foreign aid on resolution of trans-boundary environmental problems including climate change, marine governance, biodiversity loss and trade in endangered species and hazardous waste. Students negotiate a mock treaty (NEWORLD) to mitigate some aspect of human impact on global change from the perspective of different state and non-state actors. Introductory coursework that addresses some aspects of environmental studies or environmental science is recommended.  WRIT LILE","info":"Caroline Anne Karp (Primary) / ENVS 0510 S01 / CRN: 15676","_id":"iEyiRQ04518SEP0M"}
{"title":"Stage Management","teaser":"To introduce students to the principles and techniques of modern stage management from script selection to closing. Through the study of various models of stage management (both professional and academic), students will develop an appreciation of the role of the stage manager as the facilitator, mediator and organizer of the production process. Students will apply theory learned in the classroom by stage-managing or assistant stage-managing a TAPS production and/or observing other TAPS and Trinity Rep stage managers during the production process. Enrollment limited to 12.","info":"Barbara M. Reo (Primary) / TAPS 1100 S01 / CRN: 16126","_id":"iIu9Ajd9qg70udiq"}
{"title":"Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics","teaser":"The laws of thermodynamics and heat transfer. Atomic interpretation in terms of kinetic theory and elementary statistical mechanics. Applications to physical problems. Prerequisites: MATH 0180 or 0200 or 0350. Corequisite: PHYS 1410.","info":"PHYS 1530 S01 / CRN: 15248","_id":"iKkWd3W6GaK6ntXP"}
{"title":"Special Topics in Russian Studies I: Advanced Reading and Conversation","teaser":"An advanced course recommended for students who are either planning to go or are returning from abroad.  Focus on Russian culture as seen through the prism of Russian poetry.  Extensive classroom discussion and frequent writing assignments. Prerequisite: RUSS 0600 or written permission. May be repeated once with permission from the instructor. Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"Lynne Debenedette (Primary) / RUSS 1110 S01 / CRN: 16815","_id":"iQ8j0DwvXeqA3GHZ"}
{"title":"Belonging and Displacement: Cross-Cultural Identities","teaser":"Focuses on the representation of immigrants, migrants and other \"border crossers\" in contemporary literature from Brazil and other countries. How do people respond to the loss of home and the shift to a new culture? Is \"going home\" possible? How do individuals deal with their dual or triple identities? Piñon, Lispector, Scliar, Rushdie, Salih, Cristina Garcia, V. S. Naipaul and others. Conducted in English. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS WRIT","info":"Patricia I. Sobral (Primary) / POBS 0810 S01 / CRN: 15539","_id":"iQsKlWUBBGDUDq8N"}
{"title":"The Evolution of Plant Diversity","teaser":"Examines the evolutionary history of plants from a phylogenetic perspective. Introduces the science of phylogenetics - how to infer phylogenies and how to use them to understand organismal evolution. Highlights major trends in plant evolution over the past 400 million years. Lectures survey major plant lineages, with special focus on flowering plants. Weekly labs, field trips, and assignments stress basic plant anatomy and morphology, identification, and learning the local flora. Expected: BIOL 0200 (or equivalent placement). WRIT","info":"Erika J. Edwards (Primary) / BIOL 0430 L01 / CRN: 14742","_id":"iUZIGe7GndwpfSvi"}
{"title":"Land and Conflict","teaser":"This first-year seminar considers the connection between land and political conflict. Disputes over territory have been a primary cause of war for centuries. Likewise, other types of conflicts over land continue to be a major factor in political struggles worldwide. Why, how, and when does territory become the subject of violent—or non-violent—conflict? The seminar will begin by thinking broadly about how land has factored into political conflict, both historically and today, and then we will move on to a series of case studies of recent or ongoing conflicts, including Israel/Palestine, Kashmir, the South China Sea, the Arctic, and global farmland. FYS","info":"Jordan N. Branch (Primary) / POLS 0820V S01 / CRN: 15512","_id":"idjr3Xu9DQtdG5U4"}
{"title":"From Antiquity to the Humanities (via Humanism) and the History of Ideas ","teaser":"This course looks at the origins of several subjects in the Humanities in order to explain, question, and sometimes challenge the ways in which those subjects are studied or understood today. Consideration of sources for the Humanities today – in the educational practices of classical antiquity, in the 'humanism' of the Renaissance and in the 17th-20th centuries– will throw new light on ideas and categories which are central to western education. Topics include grammar/language, persuasive argument, scholarship; theory/practice of history, literature, poetry, fiction, fantasy, and the novel; relationship between words and images, and connections between studying the Humanities and being human.","info":"CLAS 0780 S01 / CRN: 16583","_id":"if6Ecx4GxAGilFXw"}
{"title":"Old-Time String Band","teaser":"Half course each semester. Instruction and ensemble playing. Music taught by ear. American (southern Appalachian Mountain) traditional music on violin (fiddle), 5-string banjo, mandolin, and guitar.  Enrollment limited to 20 students.","info":"Sandol E. Astrausky (Primary) / MUSC 0670 S01 / CRN: 16050","_id":"igpTSw8d8LSt0JU4"}
{"title":"Mathematical Methods of Engineers and Physicists","teaser":"An introduction to methods of mathematical analysis in physical science and engineering. The first semester course includes linear algebra and tensor analysis; analytic functions of a complex variable; integration in the complex plane; potential theory. The second semester course includes probability theory; eigenvalue problems; calculus of variations and extremum principles; wave propagation; other partial differential equations of evolution.","info":"PHYS 2020 S01 / CRN: 15251","_id":"ih6rvAQJB29sb8nv"}
{"title":"American Higher Education in Historical Context (EDUC 1730)","teaser":"Interested students must register for EDUC 1730 (CRN 14626).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"HIST 1930I S01 / CRN: 16351","_id":"ij17fQSle66rZKtq"}
{"title":"Advanced Topics in Landscape History","teaser":"This seminar invites students of history, other social sciences, and the digital humanities with an interest in property ownership to participate in an experimental, research-based colloquium profiling new methods in the digital history of property, landownership, occupancy, and displacement.  Students will participate in regular presentations of their own work and the review of their work and others’. Readings will include archival material on property law and international land governance.  Exercises may include work transforming archival sources into visualization through the tools of digital history. Prerequisite: advanced work in related topics.\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Jo Guldi (Primary) / HMAN 1971P S01 / CRN: 16609","_id":"ikAgdFY8Cppn5z8d"}
{"title":"Cultures of the Contemporary Middle East","teaser":"In our exploration of Middle Eastern social movements, this course addresses the role of culture and art in social change; the relationship between faith and politics; as well as the impact of national, regional, and transnational discourses on identity, ethics, and citizenship. The study of social movements in the region will address the impact of technology, media, women’s rights and LGBT movements, as well as economic liberalization, entrepreneurship, and the politics of oil. Finally, we will trace the emergence and consequences of the “Arab Spring.” DPLL","info":"Sarah A Tobin (Primary) / MES 0155 S02 / CRN: 16240","_id":"ioMuvLHLmymhGHiY"}
{"title":"Focus Groups for Market and Social Research ","teaser":"This course introduces students to a range of qualitative research methods commonly used in market and social science research. It is designed to provide students with a skill set that will allow them to conduct and design market and social research that gets below the surface of the traditional survey. Focus groups, ethnographic observation and user-centered research are widely used in product design, communications, marketing and entrepreneurship research. Students will learn and practice all of the methods introduced in the course by conducting a semester-long research project,  will gain insight into which methods are most appropriate for particular research needs.","info":"Lisa DiCarlo (Primary) / SOC 1117 S01 / CRN: 15434","_id":"ioefgzkRezXfK2GD"}
{"title":"Advanced Haitian Creole","teaser":"Designed for those who wish to develop more advanced level conversational, reading, and writing skills. Students work with a variety of readings (stories, poems, plays), films, interviews, and popular songs that promote in-class discussion and written analysis. Extensive practice in translating from English to Haitian and vice versa, with the aim of developing accuracy, speed, and appropriateness (lexical, grammatical, and cultural). Prerequisite: CROL 0300. Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Patrick Sylvain (Primary) / CROL 0400 S01 / CRN: 14863","_id":"iu5O9gIrfB9RSWx9"}
{"title":"Physical Chemistry of Solids","teaser":"Application of physical chemistry and solid state chemistry to the structure and properties of engineering solids as used in solid state devices, ceramics, and metallurgy. Equilibrium and free energy of heterogeneous systems, thermodynamics of solutions, chemical kinetics, diffusion, catalysis and corrosion, solid state transformations. Case studies taken from industrial practice. Prerequisites: ENGN 0410, 0720.","info":"Axel van de Walle (Primary) / ENGN 1410 S01 / CRN: 16443","_id":"iz7LJAwm2DjEGD9v"}
{"title":"Latin American History and Film: Memory, Narrative and Nation","teaser":"This course provides an introduction to cinematic interpretations of Latin American history. Together we will explore how (and why) filmmakers have used motion pictures to tell particular narratives about the Latin American past. We will critically examine a broad range of films dealing with historical questions, and explore what these films have to say about how gender and sexuality, imperialism, slavery, the church, revolution and repression shaped the history of the region. In order to explore these topics we will examine films in relation to academic, autobiographical, and popular texts, all of which provide different ways of representing the past.","info":"Daniel A. Rodriguez (Primary) / HIST 1381 S01 / CRN: 14935","_id":"j1287QQFeSoneJtY"}
{"title":"Urban Politics and School Governance","teaser":"This course is a requirement for students of the MA in Urban Education Policy program. It deals with the political science and public policy central question of: How can public institutions be redesigned to improve accountability? Particular attention will be given to the governance and politics in urban public school systems.","info":"Kenneth K. Wong (Primary) / EDUC 2330 S01 / CRN: 14645","_id":"j2Wr6SJL9c54qqBv"}
{"title":"Computer Networks","teaser":"Covers the technologies supporting the Internet, from Ethernet and WiFi through the routing protocols that govern the flow of traffic and the web technologies that are generating most of it. A major concern is understanding the protocols used on the Internet: what the issues are, how they work, their shortcomings, and what improvements are on the horizon. Prerequisite: CSCI 0330 or consent of instructor.","info":"John Jannotti (Primary) / CSCI 1680 S01 / CRN: 16297","_id":"j4GlNHS7Ud7Zd807"}
{"title":"Proseminar in Classics","teaser":"Introduction to standard research methods and tools in major subdisciplines of classical philology and ancient history. Required of entering graduate students. Survey of various subdisciplines in order to become familiar with field and scholarly principles.","info":"Jeri B. Debrohun (Primary) / CLAS 2000 S01 / CRN: 15940","_id":"jFX3H78NnEnB2AGg"}
{"title":"Prosperity: The Ethics and Economics of Wealth Creation","teaser":"What is prosperity? Whom does prosperity benefit? Which institutions and attitudes produce prosperity? What is the relation of prosperity to other values such as efficiency, happiness, equality, fairness, religious faith or personal freedom? This course explores the problem of prosperity from a variety of disciplinary perspectives: philosophical, economic, historical, religious, and literary. No Prerequisites. Freshmen welcome.","info":"John O. Tomasi (Primary) / POLS 1150 S01 / CRN: 15022","_id":"jFlg4vPa3pW6Ol9n"}
{"title":"Ethical Issues in Archaeology","teaser":"Graduate students will certainly confront ethical, legal, and professional issues in the course of their own doctoral research and subsequent careers. This seminar offers a forum for open, but well-informed, discussion of a variety of significant ethical problems and dilemmas currently facing the discipline of archaeology worldwide. We will give attention to practical matters arising from archaeological field research, as well as a wide range of difficult questions concerning ownership and presentation of the past. Open to graduate students only.","info":"John F. Cherry (Primary) / ARCH 2010G S01 / CRN: 16184","_id":"jGUMfxVSpQ9Yd3L3"}
{"title":"Music, Nature, Ecology","teaser":"This course explores how music mediates human relations to the natural world. Via case studies drawn from Western music history and from non-Western societies, we will examine how theorists use sound to think through the difference between humans and non-humans, particularly birds and whales; how composers like Grieg, Ives, and John Luther Adams seek to shape listeners’ perceptions of natural worlds and ecological systems; how people in Papua New Guinea, Mongolia, and the Peruvian Andes use sound to communicate ecological knowledge and to coordinate environmental relationships; and how instrument making forces practitioners to contend with resource extraction and climatological concerns.\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Christopher Joshua Tucker (Primary) / HMAN 1971N S01 / CRN: 16709","_id":"jLSef0qUihJe1y0t"}
{"title":"The Theory of the Sign","teaser":"A survey of three late twentieth-century theorists: Louis Althusser, Jacques Derrida, and Michel Foucault.  Our analyses will focus on these figures as they emerge from and reorient the broad field of semiotics, with particular attention to the evolution of each oeuvre, the continuities and discontinuities that distinguish their theoretical claims, and their diverging legacies.  Readings will include Althusser's Reading Capital and \"Contradiction and Over-determination;\" Derrida’s Of Grammatology and Spurs; and Foucault's This is Not a Pipe and History of Sexuality.  Critical concepts to be examined include signification, reading, discourse, subjectivity, power, historicism, archaeology, the supplement, and difference.\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Ellen Frances Rooney (Primary) / MCM 1110 S01 / CRN: 14887","_id":"jUB9icvWrzKdXGTz"}
{"title":"Public Policy Colloquium","teaser":"An advanced two-semester research seminar for senior honors candidates in the public policy and American institutions concentration. Participants jointly consider strategies appropriate to researching and writing a senior paper before proceeding to individual research on topics they choose. Each participant is required to present a summary of his or her work to the colloquium.","info":"PLCY 1990 S01 / CRN: 15692","_id":"jUV85eKwJrqDHEfG"}
{"title":"Creative Companies: Entrepreneurship, Markets, and the Culture Industry ","teaser":"Firms in creative industries influence many physical and psychological aspects of our lives, from what we eat and wear to how we entertain ourselves,  but markets for cultural goods are complex and difficult to navigate. Entrepreneurs must, therefore, understand the economic sociology of  cultural market and ecosystem in order to capture economic value, a process that recursively relates to cultural norms. Students will analyze business cases of firms in a wide range of creative industries such as art, fashion, film, food, music, publishing, and theater to explore and understand the economic, organizational, and sociological underpinnings of culture, value(s), and markets.","info":"SOC 1121 S01 / CRN: 16894","_id":"jfA1qISJnNq0EHnC"}
{"title":"Graduate Proseminar in Neuroscience","teaser":"A study of selected topics in experimental and theoretical neuroscience. Presented by neuroscience faculty, students, and outside speakers. A required course for all students in the neuroscience graduate program.","info":"David Sheinberg (Primary) / NEUR 2010 S01 / CRN: 16590","_id":"jffCzsrSQy3VaLzm"}
{"title":"A Mirror for the Romantic: The Tale of Genji and The Story of the Stone","teaser":"In East Asian Buddhist culture, the mirror is a symbol of the mind in both its intellectual and emotional aspects. These masterworks detail the lives and loves of Prince Genji, cynosure of the medieval Japanese court, and Jia Baoyu, the last hope of an influential Chinese clan during the reign of Manchus. We examine both works as well as the sources of Genji and literary aesthetics of the Tang dynasty.","info":"Dore J. Levy (Primary) / COLT 1420B S01 / CRN: 15068","_id":"jngCUNpsb91YPTtM"}
{"title":"Islamic Sectarianism","teaser":"Sunni and Shi'i conflict and sectarian division have been an enduring issue in the Islamic world. From Iraq to Syria, Iran to Egypt, inter-Muslim conflict and conflicting ideologies seem to be central\n issues. But how accurate and historical is this impression? In this course, we examine the origins and evolution of Islamic sectarianism, with an emphasis on the politics of religious authority in the Islamic world, old and new. This is an upper level seminar, and juniors and seniors will be given preference for enrollment. Shoppers must attend the first day of class if they wish to enroll.  DPLL LILE","info":"Nancy Khalek (Primary) / RELS 1530D S01 / CRN: 16264","_id":"jsI76BdUfZevKUAM"}
{"title":"Information Technology and Governance","teaser":"The use of information and technology in governance is a vexed subject. Civil society clamors for\n release of information about the state (openness) while the State wants more information about its\n citizens (surveillance). Technology plays a role in amplifying these respective intentions resulting in\n an unprecedented gathering and release of information, thereby bringing the issue of information,\n technology and its role in governance to sharp focus. This course provides an intensive introduction to the field of information technology and global development. Enrollment limited to 20. Preference given to DS juniors and Seniors. WRIT","info":"DEVL 1810 S01 / CRN: 16877","_id":"jti5rxuRZXyYcXfb"}
{"title":"Sport in American History","teaser":"This course covers the relationship of sports to aspects of American culture since 1900. Topics include gender, race, amateurism, professionalism, intercollegiate athletics, and sports heroes. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. FYS WRIT","info":"Howard P. Chudacoff (Primary) / HIST 0556A S01 / CRN: 15413","_id":"kB09ErnUg2cwh6Vl"}
{"title":"TA Apprenticeship: Full Credit","teaser":"Being an undergraduate TA is a learning experience: one not only gets a deeper understanding of the course material, but gains management and social skills that are invaluable for one's future. Students taking this course must first be selected as an undergraduate TA for a Computer Science course, a course the student has taken and done well in. Students will work with the course's instructor on a variety of course-related topics, including preparation of material and development of assignments. Whether CSCI 0081 or its half-credit version (CSCI 0082) is taken is up to the professor of the course being TA'd. Instructor permission required.","info":"Thomas W. Doeppner Jr. (Primary) / CSCI 0081 S01 / CRN: 16547","_id":"kBkTEHzH8vLio9Yc"}
{"title":"Global China: Flows, Forces, and Friction","teaser":"This course will provide an overview of contemporary issues surrounding Global China, including the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan, as well as their regional and global influence through migration, culture, multinational trade, and labor manufacturing. We will study institutions (the government, family, and education), forces of globalization (rural to urban migration, ethnicity and identity, human trafficking,\n diaspora communities, labor production and consumption, and cultures of resistance (underground music, human rights movements, radical internet blogging, environmental justice activism and Chinese contemporary art).\nDPLL","info":"Elena Shih (Primary) / AMST 1600B S01 / CRN: 16515","_id":"kCYv4kRnbW9s5vj0"}
{"title":"Reading Global: International Relations through Fiction","teaser":"\"Any book thoughtfully read sharpens the mind and improves on an individual's professional potential.\" So declared U.S. General James Amos when he reinvigorated the Marine Commandant's reading list in October 2012.  This capstone course is designed in a similar spirit for Brown IR students, built around 20th century works of fiction from around the world which won recognition for the insights they offer on core issues in international relations and development studies. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors and seniors. Priority given to IR seniors. WRIT","info":"Keith Brown (Primary) / INTL 1802G S01 / CRN: 16717","_id":"kDyKevyWRYExS7Vh"}
{"title":"Levy Processes","teaser":"Lévy processes are the continuous-time analogues of\nrandom walks, and include Brownian motion, compound Poisson processes,\nand square-integrable pure-jump martingales with many small jumps.  In\nthis course we will develop the basic theory of general Lévy processes\nand subordinators, and discuss topics including local time,\nexcursions, and fluctuations.  Time permitting we will finish with\nselected applications which are of mutual interest to the instructor\nand students enrolled in the class.  Prerequisite: APMA 2640 or\nequivalent.","info":"David C. Kaspar (Primary) / APMA 2811S S01 / CRN: 16651","_id":"kFLDgGwglaYop7XL"}
{"title":"Advanced Placement Calculus (Physics/Engineering)","teaser":"Covers roughly the same material and has the same prerequisites as MATH 0170, but is intended for students with a special interest in physics or engineering. The main topics are: calculus of vectors and paths in two and three dimensions; differential equations of the first and second order; and infinite series, including power series and Fourier series. The extra hour is a weekly problem session.","info":"MATH 0190 C01 / CRN: 15360","_id":"kHUJDNtuUEiUlfFo"}
{"title":"Science at the Crossroads","teaser":"This course will look closely at the dramatic developments that fundamentally challenged Western Science between 1859 and the advent of the Second World War in the 1930s. Its primary focus will be on a variety of texts written in an effort to understand and interpret the meanings of fundamentally new ideas including from the biological side--evolutionary theory, genetic theory, and eugenics; from the physical side relativity theory, and quantum mechanics. The class should be equally accessible to students whose primary interests lie in the sciences and those who are working in the humanities. WRIT","info":"Joan L. Richards (Primary) / HIST 1825M S01 / CRN: 15424","_id":"kNLqHx85ZPp3MW1a"}
{"title":"Politics, Public Policy, and Economic Development in Asia","teaser":"It is widely accepted that development is not simply an economic phenomenon.  Political processes are intimately tied up with economic development.    We will compare and contract the various Asian countries and models of development around themes identified above.  The heaviest emphasis will be on China, India and South Korea.  Economic policy will be the center of our discussion.","info":"Ashutosh Varshney (Primary) / PLCY 2140 S01 / CRN: 16614","_id":"kNcMhv5Mp4ADgv56"}
{"title":"Seminar on Modern Methods for HSR and CER (I)","teaser":"This graduate course will cover a number of methods topics in health services and comparative effectiveness research. This is the first semester of a 2-semester course, focusing on analysis of primary data. Prior exposure to theory is assumed; emphasis is on application.  Example topics include predictive modeling, imputation for missing data, estimation of intervention effects (propensity scores; instrumental variables; difference in differences), pragmatic trials, competing risks analysis. For each methods topic the class will (1) briefly review theory; (2) critically appraise 1-5 applied papers; (3) conduct a practical exercise using a faculty-procured dataset.","info":"Thomas Trikalinos (Primary) / PHP 2455A S01 / CRN: 16941","_id":"kP7SNIbW9vxQki1i"}
{"title":"Sound Design","teaser":"This production seminar is a study of techniques and aesthetics used to create sonic environments and effects that enhance a variety of media including video, radio and audio art, new media, theater, and installation art. Technical topics include audio production in multi-channel formats, advanced audio editing, mixing and synthesis techniques, and audio system design. Enrollment limited to 12 students. Preference will be given to students who have completed MUSC 1200. Others will be evaluated for potential future work in the MEME program (Multimedia and Electronic Music Experiments) and past participation in MEME. Admission is determined by an entrance questionnaire completed at the first class meeting. Prereq: MUSC 1200. LILE","info":"James R. Moses (Primary) / MUSC 1250 S01 / CRN: 16009","_id":"kQoUjV70uTDiOw62"}
{"title":"Sound and Symbols: Introduction to Linguistic Anthropology","teaser":"This introduction to the study of language and culture considers how language not only reflects social reality but also creates it.  We'll examine specific cases of broad current relevance, in the process learning how an analytical anthropological approach to language use lays bare its often hidden power.  We'll consider how language creates and reinforces social inequality and difference, how language promotes and resists globalization, and how language is used creatively in performance, literature, film, advertising, and mass media. We will also consider how language does important social work in specific contexts, such as classrooms, courtrooms, medical settings, and political campaigns. DPLL LILE","info":"Paja L. Faudree (Primary) / ANTH 0800 S01 / CRN: 16192","_id":"kR16F5zjCN3rGsFV"}
{"title":"Memory and the Brain","teaser":"This class is for undergraduate and beginning graduate students of psychology, cognitive neuroscience, and biology interested in to biological research on memory. There are four parts: 1) how neurons are connected and communicate, 2) fundamental issues in the psychology of memory, 3) memory localization in the brain, and 4) consolidation of memory into a permanent store. The course is designed to be accessible to students in a variety of disciplines, but requires background in psychology, cognitive science, or neuroscience. The class will include lecture, writing assignments, and presentations of primary research articles. Prerequisite: CLPS 0010, 0020, 0040, 0200, or NEUR 0010.","info":"Rebecca D. Burwell (Primary) / CLPS 1150 S01 / CRN: 15764","_id":"kdsPkEstGEj8pu3o"}
{"title":"Russian Cinema","teaser":"This seminar will provide a chronological overview of Russian cinema from its beginning to the present. The films will be considered against the background of some historical, political, and theoretical readings. The students will also be encouraged to juxtapose Russian and non-Russian films in order to evaluate the place of Russian cinema within a global film culture. Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Vladimir Golstein (Primary) / RUSS 1250 S01 / CRN: 15995","_id":"kkwuFhTxi7Q7hzrs"}
{"title":"Latina Feminisms","teaser":"This course will be a focused exploration of Latina feminisms.  Through historically situated critical analysis of novels, short stories, poetry, film, and performance art, we will meditate on how the Latina body has been constructed and mobilized both within dominant culture and social justice movements.  We will situate Latina cultural production and theorizing in relation to ethnic studies and women's studies in order to ascertain the contributions and challenges that Latina feminists bring to dominant discourses of race, gender, sexuality, nationalism, labor and class.","info":"Leticia Alvarado (Primary) / ETHN 1890R S01 / CRN: 15919","_id":"klaeqgEWRSosQPOQ"}
{"title":"Nineteenth-Century Latin American Prose","teaser":"Departing from the national representations of the early fiction and later realism and romanticism, we will focus on the fundamental novels and stories of the nineteenth century. Some of the issues discussed are national formation, the family romance, nature and history, as well as the political dimension of these texts.","info":"HISP 2350D S01 / CRN: 15746","_id":"ktU5qOlYaq62R3Z7"}
{"title":"Intermediate Calculus (Physics/Engineering)","teaser":"Covers roughly the same material as MATH 0180, but is intended for students with a special interest in physics or engineering. The main topics are: geometry of three-dimensional space; partial derivatives; Lagrange multipliers; double, surface, and triple integrals; vector analysis; Stokes' theorem and the divergence theorem, with applications to electrostatics and fluid flow. The extra hour is a weekly problem session.  Recommended prerequisite: MATH 0100, 0170, or 0190.","info":"MATH 0200 C01 / CRN: 15366","_id":"ktcrVIhfkzTFM9Z6"}
{"title":"Modern African Literature (ENGL1710J)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ENGL 1710J (CRN 15511).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 1310I S01 / CRN: 16341","_id":"ktt4xh8bOPsqMCOu"}
{"title":"The Mexican Revolution","teaser":"An in-depth study of the Mexican Revolution. The focus is on the years of revolutionary violence (1910-1920), but considerable attention is also paid to the roots of the Revolution and to its socioeconomic and political impact in the period 1920-1940.","info":"Robert Douglas Cope (Primary) / HIST 1333 S01 / CRN: 14906","_id":"kuNkuhEYnLix47gc"}
{"title":"Intermediate Persian Language and Culture","teaser":"Expands students' proficiency in modern Persian language and culture; develops listening, speaking, reading and writing skills at the intermediate level through various texts and multimedia. Prerequisite: PRSN 0200.","info":"Iraj Anvar (Primary) / PRSN 0300 S01 / CRN: 14865","_id":"kvavIoX7fENq4BTp"}
{"title":"Microeconomics I","teaser":"Decision theory: consumer's and producer's theory; general competitive equilibrium and welfare economics: the Arrow-Debreu-McKenzie model; social choice and implementation.","info":"Rajiv Vohra (Primary) / ECON 2050 S01 / CRN: 15174","_id":"kw7lPmGk4xv0yic6"}
{"title":"Beginning Hindi or Urdu","teaser":"Introduces conversation, reading, and writing of modern standard Hindi and the Devanagari script. Those who already know Devanagari but have rusty conversation skills may join the class second semester; obtain instructor's permission during the first semester. Those who prefer to learn Urdu and the Persian script should contact the instructor.","info":"Ashok K. Koul (Primary) / HNDI 0100 S01 / CRN: 14800","_id":"kxenIv0zTsFQv13j"}
{"title":"Pedagogy: Prep and Practice","teaser":"In the second year of the three-year MFA Playwriting Program, students are required to teach undergraduates Introductory and Intermediate Playwriting. This course readies MFAs for their teaching in advance of their time at the head of the classroom, provides them with mentorship during the conduct of their teaching, and assesses their experience at the end of their assignments. It is an intensive seminar, where the head of the Playwriting Program meets with students individually and as a team, sharing in the evolutions of curricular design and practice, offering close comment and tailored assignments (suggested readings; writing tasks).","info":"Marcus Gardley (Primary) / TAPS 2300 S01 / CRN: 16119","_id":"l4yNmpdkJ0JUw5z8"}
{"title":"Gigantic Fictions","teaser":"Terms such as ‘epic,’ ‘mammoth,’ ‘gigantic,’ and even ‘loose, baggy monsters’ have been coined to describe examples of literary discourse that inordinately exceed the normative boundaries of fiction.  How are we to understand these narratives?  What is the relation between literary gigantism and mimesis? How do 'gigantic fictions' threaten to break their literary bounds? What holds these mammoth narratives together? What impels authors to elect such a grand scope for literary representation?  We explore these questions and others through close reading of several works deemed to be among the most gargantuan from authors such as Rabelais, Murasaki Shikibu, Tolstoy and Joyce.","info":"Meera Sushila Viswanathan (Primary) / COLT 1420Y S01 / CRN: 15883","_id":"l8nUjUaJ8Sz6s5jk"}
{"title":"Introduction to Multiprocessor Synchronization","teaser":"This course examines the theory and practice of multiprocessor synchronization. Subjects covered include multiprocessor architecture, mutual exclusion, wait-free and lock-free synchronization, spin locks, monitors, load balancing, concurrent data structures, and transactional synchronization.\n Prerequisites:  CSCI 0330","info":"Maurice P. Herlihy (Primary) / CSCI 1760 S01 / CRN: 16299","_id":"lDghImxNRqXYLB2d"}
{"title":"Preparing the Prospectus I","teaser":"This course covers selected topics in research design and methodology and is designed to help students enrolled in the Political Science PhD program to write and defend a prospectus in their third year of study.","info":"James A. Morone Jr. (Primary) / POLS 2050 S01 / CRN: 15047","_id":"lM7zYb6Pe1fqDsc6"}
{"title":"The Archaeology of College Hill","teaser":"A training class in field and laboratory techniques.   Topics include the nature of field archaeology, excavation and survey methodologies, archaeological ethics, computer technologies (such as GIS), and site and artifact analysis and conservation.  Students will act as practicing archaeologists through the investigation of local historical and archaeological sites in the College Hill area (e.g. the First Baptist Church of America and Brown University's Quiet Green).  Prerequisite: A previous course in Archaeology and the Ancient World or Anthropology is required. Restricted to sophomores, juniors, and seniors, except by permission of the instructor.  Enrollment limited to 15.","info":"ARCH 1900 C01 / CRN: 16181","_id":"lMTlbDRCYsRuf24d"}
{"title":"War and the Mind in Modern America","teaser":"This course examines how the crucible of war has shaped modern conceptions of human nature. Moving from the Civil War to the present, we will consider questions such as changing theories of combat trauma, evolutionary and social scientific explanations for why people fight wars, and the role of memory in individual and collective understandings of violent conflicts.  Students will analyze representations of war in film and literature in addition to reading historical and theoretical texts. WRIT","info":"Deborah F. Weinstein (Primary) / AMST 1905N S01 / CRN: 15643","_id":"lRV60VQDKulWmFUw"}
{"title":"Topology","teaser":"An introductory course with emphasis on the algebraic and differential topology of manifolds. Topics include simplicial and singular homology, de Rham cohomology, and Poincaré duality.","info":"Sara Maloni (Primary) / MATH 2410 S01 / CRN: 15391","_id":"lSVWB59orbO0iTCS"}
{"title":"High Culture: Intoxicants in 19th-Century Literature and Society","teaser":"This seminar explores the cultural significance of intoxicants in 19th-century France. Between the wine of transcendence and creation and the opiates of degeneration and disease, alcohol and narcotics played a role in antithetical discourses of fulfillment and depletion. Their idealization commonly found witnesses among poets, while the social sciences roundly condemned their deleterious effects on the material and social body. Advances in medicine contributed new intoxicants available for abuse (ether, morphine), even while feeding discourses condemning alcoholism and drug use as social scourges. Primary readings include literature (Gautier, Baudelaire, Rimbaud, Zola, Lorrain), medical treatises, social policy. Taught in English.","info":"Gretchen Schultz (Primary) / FREN 2170K S01 / CRN: 16164","_id":"lZ2W5qqoHwMY9Dql"}
{"title":"Poetry Writing II","teaser":"Emphasis is placed on verse strategies, meter, rhythm, imagery and rhyme. Writing includes frequent exercises in various poetic traditions. See general course description above for course entry procedures for all intermediate workshops. Written permission required. S/NC. WRIT\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"LITR 0210B S01 / CRN: 15845","_id":"lfNvygOvW8VuJCqY"}
{"title":"Invisibility and Impersonality in Modern American Fiction","teaser":"The nineteenth century American novel features identifiable people doing identifiable things: escaping slavery, chasing whales, going to war. The twentieth century American novel, in contrast, depicts anonymous, blank, invisible people who don’t do much of anything, bound by economic, political, psychological, and social forces outside of their control. This class reads major works of twentieth century American fiction by Nabokov, Faulkner, Ellison, Pynchon, and Highsmith in the context of various accounts of the death of the subject by Nietzsche, Freud, Benjamin, Foucault, Barthes, Derrida, Butler, Zizek. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors and seniors in English, Comparative Literature, MCM, and Literary Arts.","info":"Stuart Burrows (Primary) / ENGL 1762E S01 / CRN: 15502","_id":"lgdsEmeHUSRdfKRw"}
{"title":"Principles of Economics","teaser":"Extensive coverage of economic issues, institutions, and vocabulary, plus an introduction to economic analysis and its application to current social problems. Required for all economics concentrators. Prerequisite for ECON 1110, 1130, 1210 and 1620. Serves as a general course for students who will take no other economics courses and want a broad introduction to the discipline. Weekly one-hour conference required (conferences are not held during the summer session).","info":"Rachel M. Friedberg (Primary) / ECON 0110 C01 / CRN: 15127","_id":"lgsp4YqrNu5EB9xO"}
{"title":"Phase and Chemical Equilibria","teaser":"Application of the first and second laws of thermodynamics and conservation of mass to the analysis of chemical and environmental processes, phase and chemical equilibria and partitioning of species in multiphase, nonreactive and reactive systems. Thermodynamic properties of fluid mixtures-correlation and estimation. Applications and examples drawn from chemical processing and environmental problems. Prerequisite: ENGN 0720.","info":"Claude Franklin Goldsmith III (Primary) / ENGN 1130 S01 / CRN: 16499","_id":"llS8VLShO0YnFLo7"}
{"title":"Linear System Analysis","teaser":"Analysis of discrete and continuous electrical signals and systems in both time and frequency domains. Modulation, sampling, spectral analysis, analog and digital filtering. Fourier, Laplace and z-transforms, the state-space approach, stability of linear systems. Prerequisite: ENGN 0520.","info":"Pedro F. Felzenszwalb (Primary) / ENGN 1570 S01 / CRN: 16448","_id":"lmC0WZoJ9W9TAUht"}
{"title":"Holocaust Literature","teaser":"Readings in works of prose and poetry by victims and survivors of the Holocaust that portray experiences in ghettos, in concentration camps, and in hiding. Additional readings in works of the post-war era by survivors and their offspring. Discussion of the moral, psychological, religious, and cultural dimensions of the Holocaust and its ongoing impact on humanity. WRIT","info":"David C. Jacobson (Primary) / JUDS 1820 S01 / CRN: 14681","_id":"lopCuS0kHDGzRD3c"}
{"title":"Into the Machine","teaser":"Starting from Turing's work on artificial intelligence, we shall examine the cultural and artistic ramifications of the rise of the machine, using Marx and Walter Benjamin to provide a framework. We will look at how machines generate anxiety, with special emphasis on robots, puppets and automatons; and we shall also consider utopian and dystopian images of machines, and visions of near and distant futures. Finally we will look at authors who utilize machine models of operation to generate artistic work. Authors and filmmakers include: Capek, E.T.A. Hoffman, Asimov, Lem, Breton, Redonet, Fritz Lang, Chaplin, Tati.  Enrollment limited to 20 first year students.  FYS","info":"Joanna E. Howard (Primary) / LITR 0510B S01 / CRN: 15551","_id":"luIHOHZmSazGezpX"}
{"title":"Media Korean","teaser":"Develop linguistic competence and deepen cultural understanding through exposure to a variety of media sources.  Built on the Content-based Instruction model and Genre-based Approach.  Discuss current Korean affairs and core issues of culture based on assigned materials. Develop reading and listening comprehension skills through pre-class activities, oral proficiency through in-class discussion and presentation, and writing proficiency through assigned essays writings, in addition to various integrative tasks.  Tuesday classes will focus on comprehending the text and source materials, Thursday classes will focus on related tasks and activities. Enrollment limited to 20. Conducted entirely in Korean.","info":"Hye-Sook Wang (Primary) / KREA 0910B S01 / CRN: 15055","_id":"lySZIeSX9Jh6CEv5"}
{"title":"Beginning German","teaser":"A course in the language and cultures of German-speaking countries. Four hours per week plus regular computer and listening comprehension work. At the end of the year, students will be able to communicate successfully about everyday topics. This is the first half of a year-long course whose first semester grade is normally a temporary one. Neither semester may be elected independently without special written permission. The final grade submitted at the end of the course work in GRMN 0200 covers the entire year and is recorded as the final grade for both semesters.","info":"Jane Sokolosky (Primary) / GRMN 0100 S01 / CRN: 15835","_id":"m5p3c5fuYqdauGMy"}
{"title":"Dance Performance and Repertory","teaser":"Half course credit each semester. A study of dance repertory through commissioned new works, reconstruction, coaching, rehearsal, and performance. Guest artists and consultants from the American Dance Legacy Institute. Enrollment is by audition. Limited to skilled dancers. Instructor permission required. S/NC.","info":"Julie A. Strandberg (Primary) / TAPS 1350 S01 / CRN: 16116","_id":"mBjsgCJDAl4vcqpC"}
{"title":"Medieval Masterpieces","teaser":"Examines three medieval Spanish masterpieces: Cantar de Mio Cid, Libro de buen amor, and Celestina. Other works are read to explore lines of continuity and discontinuity in these three works and their respective genres.","info":"Mercedes Vaquero (Primary) / HISP 2030C S01 / CRN: 15734","_id":"mFqHssMNW3GpCWkp"}
{"title":"Sanskrit Epic Narrative","teaser":"Consolidates and extends the knowledge of Sanskrit grammar introduced in first year Sanskrit; acquaints students first-hand with basic themes of ancient Indian culture, and cultivates the reading and interpretive skills necessary to read epic and closely related Sanskrit narrative with comprehension and increased fluency. Prerequisite: SANS 0200.","info":"David Buchta (Primary) / SANS 0300 S01 / CRN: 15928","_id":"mGb4iQRwrnFwe3PQ"}
{"title":"Engaged Buddhism","teaser":"“Engaged Buddhism” is a term used to describe social activism that applies Buddhist insight and ethics. This course will examine the historical background of engaged Buddhism, explore its central concepts, analyze it theoretically, and look at practical applications.  Since many engaged Buddhist movements employ meditation, we will also study, first hand, the effects of meditation on prosocial attitudes in the “Meditation Labs” that are integral to the pedagogy of the course. Pre-requisites: RELS 0500, UNIV 0540. Or permission of instructor. Preference given to students with prior coursework in Buddhism. Meditation Labs MWF at 9 AM; Weekly Seminar. LILE","info":"Harold D. Roth (Primary) / RELS 0290E L01 / CRN: 15996","_id":"mIVszgpKFe9RwY1k"}
{"title":"Fundamentals of Epidemiology","teaser":"As the cornerstone of public health, a strong foundation in epidemiology provides students with the ability to investigate, clarify and criticize claims of disease causation. This course provides students with a foundation in basic epidemiologic concepts and methods. Key measures of disease occurrence and effects used in epidemiology will be discussed; strengths and weaknesses of alternative epidemiologic study designs will be examined. Interpreting epidemiologic evidence to inform public health policy and practice will be emphasized throughout the course.\nOpen to Public Health concentrators and others by permission; Class limit 80.","info":"Stephen L. Buka (Primary) / PHP 0850 S01 / CRN: 16530","_id":"mIfun9FQ8ApHT6Um"}
{"title":"Nanoscale Materials:  Synthesis and Applications","teaser":"Focuses on synthesis, properties, and applications of nanoscale materials. It begins with the introduction to size-dependent properties and to general characterization methods of nanomaterials. It then outlines the synthesis, surface chemistry and self-assembly of nanomaterials. It further reviews catalytic, optical and magnetic properties of nanomateirals. Finally, the course highlights the applications of nanomaterials in information storage, energy conversion, and biomedicine.","info":"Shouheng Sun (Primary) / CHEM 1700 S01 / CRN: 14833","_id":"mJypJl8aNhZriXmg"}
{"title":"Advanced Ghanaian Drumming and Dancing Ensemble","teaser":"Students with experience in African and related musical traditions perform drumming, dancing, and singing of Ghana and the diaspora.  Focus on a more challenging repertoire with emphasis on multi-part, lead, and improvisational playing. Prerequisite:  audition. May be repeatable for credit.  Instructor permission required.  Enrollment limited to 15 students.","info":"Martin K. Obeng (Primary) / MUSC 1960 S01 / CRN: 16052","_id":"mKJRUZg9YejHzVeK"}
{"title":"Sanskrit Preliminary Exam Preparation","teaser":"For graduate students who have met the tuition requirement and are paying the registration fee to continue active enrollment while preparing for a preliminary examination.","info":"SANS 2970 S01 / CRN: 14616","_id":"mXalyFvn3Cr8ypJA"}
{"title":"Seven Wonders of the Ancient World (CLAS 1120Q)","teaser":"Interested students must register for CLAS (CRN 16026).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ARCH 1707 S01 / CRN: 16364","_id":"mYTIMya4e7ZkIQPy"}
{"title":"Faulkner (ENGL 1710G)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ENGL 1710G (CRN 15496).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 1421K S01 / CRN: 16765","_id":"mZ4Yb7aIFjcUxxWt"}
{"title":"Exchange Scholar Program","teaser":"","info":"AFRI 2450 S01 / CRN: 14531","_id":"mbC9nbNeeEB8s96k"}
{"title":"Killing Times: The Temporal Technology of the Death Penalty","teaser":"The death penalty continues to be a question in the US, as well as on the international scene, many years after the 20th century trend toward abolition that saw a majority of nations outlaw it by the turn of the millennium. This seminar will examine a series of contemporary questions relating to the death penalty: the instant of death, execution by drone, self-execution (suicide bombing), technics and blood, confessional machines. By means of those examples we will concentrate on the set of peculiar temporalities that the death penalty introduces as a result of its manufacturing a precise moment of death.","info":"David R. Wills (Primary) / HMAN 1971Q S01 / CRN: 16710","_id":"mdo8CMc5iUjsmkUx"}
{"title":"Descartes Meditations","teaser":"This seminar will focus on the main arguments and overall goals of Decartes' Meditations, read in conjuction with the Objections and Replies and some of Decartes' other writings. Also discussed will be some philosophically engaging studies of the Meditations by contemporary writers such as Harry Frankfurt and Bernard Williams.","info":"Charles Larmore (Primary) / PHIL 0990M S01 / CRN: 15094","_id":"mgkDXdrfDmOZzQ1r"}
{"title":"Introduction to Philosophy","teaser":"This course will introduce the student to the how, what, and why of philosophical enquiry through engagement with some of the major themes, and major figures, of the field. We will follow our wonder about the world around us, ourselves and about how we should act in it, using classical as well as contemporary writings. Through a combination of lectures, readings, class discussions, and assignments the student will develop their ability to understand and engage with philosophical texts, evaluate arguments, and express their critical and reflective opinions in writing.","info":"Tobias Albert Fuchs (Primary) / PHIL 0220 S01 / CRN: 15527","_id":"mkFDF4OAdIPCUNaY"}
{"title":"Perverse Cinema","teaser":"A seminar on movies that pursue and spectacularize the perverse, as well as on how viewing movies is itself a perverse pleasure.  We will study film genres that traffic in what's sensational, excessive, uncanny, and transgressive, such as the detective film, thriller, melodrama, sex film, horror, and sci-fi.  Special emphasis on the movies of Hitchcock, Kubrick, Lynch, and Cronenberg. Enrollment limited to 20 concentrators in English, Comparative Literature, MCM, Gender and Sexuality Studies, and Theatre and Performance Studies. Not open to first year students.","info":"Richard M. Rambuss (Primary) / ENGL 1762A S01 / CRN: 15501","_id":"mlxlS9Z1iZd4SjDt"}
{"title":"Geographical Analysis of Society","teaser":"Provides an introduction to a geographical approach to understanding the spatial organization of individuals, societies, and economies. The two main emphases are on theories/concepts and applied analytical tools. We will learn about key theories in geography, sociology, and economics that have attempted to organize and classify the spatial structures and interactions across space of social and economic actors and will work with related analytical techniques. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors, seniors, and graduate students. WRIT","info":"Rachel S. Franklin (Primary) / SOC 1871W S01 / CRN: 15442","_id":"mmLUp7hhE2AOtwKm"}
{"title":"Intermediate Modern Greek","teaser":"Develops linguistic and cultural competence and may be taken by anyone who has completed MGRK 0200 or after consultation with the instructor and/or a placement exam. It focuses on further development of the four language skills as well as knowledge and understanding of various aspects of Greek society. It employs a variety of materials, including film, digital stories, internet based sources, music, art, and literature.","info":"Elissavet Amanatidou (Primary) / MGRK 0300 S01 / CRN: 15951","_id":"mnNeavS2FK3WHHd4"}
{"title":"Intermediate Macroeconomics","teaser":"The economy as a whole: Level and growth of national income, inflation, unemployment, role of government policy. Prerequisite: MATH 0060, 0070, 0090, 0100, 0170, 0180, 0190, 0200, or 0350; and ECON 0110; or advanced placement.","info":"ECON 1210 S01 / CRN: 15153","_id":"moGlfUYJMoFy6X9V"}
{"title":"Lao Tzu and Huai-nan Tzu","teaser":"This seminar will approach early Taoist thought through the study of important essays from the Han dynasty compendium, the Huai-nan Tzu and will discuss the historical and philosophical origins of Lao Tzu's Tao te ching, heretofore acknowledged as the foundational text of the Taosit tradition.","info":"EAST 1880A S01 / CRN: 15007","_id":"moZjEj21trWtT5Jt"}
{"title":"Neurogenetics and Disease","teaser":"Genetic mutations provides a powerful approach to dissect complex biologic problems.  We will focus on fascinating discoveries from \"forward genetic\" studies – moving from nervous system phenotype to genetic mutation discovery.   There will be an emphasis of neurologic disease phenotypes and the use of novel genomic methods to elucidate the central molecular and cellular causes for these conditions.  The course will emphasize the use of \"reverse genetics\" – engineered mutations in model systems – to dissect nervous system function and disease mechanisms.  Disorders to be covered include autism, intellectual disability, schizophrenia, epilepsy. Enrollment limited to 20. Instructor permission required.","info":"Eric M. Morrow (Primary) / BIOL 2340 S01 / CRN: 14730","_id":"mrEkxXUa1UsNiT0O"}
{"title":"Eighteenth-Century Literature","teaser":"The most important literary currents from the Baroque to early romanticism. Study of style and genre and the development of the literary language.","info":"RUSS 2010 S01 / CRN: 15993","_id":"msHSbFY0MG7mVasY"}
{"title":"Stratigraphy and Sedimentation","teaser":"Introduction to depositional environments and processes responsible for formation of sedimentary rocks. Major sedimentary environments in the Recent are discussed, general models are proposed, and stratigraphic sequences in older sediments are examined in the light of these models. The Phanerozoic stratigraphic record is examined from the perspective of Earth system history. Laboratory arranged. Prerequisites: GEOL 0220 or 0240, or instructor permission. GEOL 0310, 1410 are also recommended. WRIT","info":"James M. Russell (Primary) / GEOL 1240 S01 / CRN: 15963","_id":"msuAqVkJBAYW6vEG"}
{"title":"Methods of Applied Mathematics I, II","teaser":"This course will cover mathematical techniques involving ordinary differential equations used in the analysis of physical, biological, and economic phenomena. The course emphasizes established methods and their applications rather than rigorous foundation. Topics include: first and second order differential equations, an introduction to numerical methods, series solutions, and Laplace transformations.","info":"Vladimir Dobrushkin (Primary) / APMA 0330 S01 / CRN: 15787","_id":"muvlYJtgF7qM9RD1"}
{"title":"Introduction to Filmmaking: Time and Form","teaser":"A studio-style course on working with time based media, focused specifically on the technology of 16mm film production. With its focus on photographic and montage processes, as well as lighting and sound, the principles established in this course provide a solid foundation for all subsequent work in media, whether cinematic, video or new media, and it is strongly advised as a foundation level, skills oriented media course.  Students produce a series of short, non-sync films. No previous experience required. Screenings, demonstrations and studio work. Application required. Application is available in the MCM office. Students must bring a completed application to the first class to be considered for admission.  Up to 40 students can apply, but the final class list of 15 will be determined after this meeting, with permission of the instructor. Enrollment limited to 15. S/NC","info":"MCM 0710 F01 / CRN: 14884","_id":"mzmEjqwyqmWEnjZJ"}
{"title":"India in the World","teaser":"This course is designed to introduce students to the role of India in the world. From being a newly independent country in the nineteen forties, India is today a globally re-emergent power. The world’s largest democracy and third-largest economy is grappling with linguistic and religious diversity, economic growth and inclusive development, the politics of the Centre-versus-States, uneasy neighborhood relationships, the threat of terror, and the redefinition of her role in the Indo-Pacific world. The Course aims at deepening understanding of the priorities that define India’s global outreach. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors & seniors. Priority given to IR seniors. WRIT","info":"INTL 1802Y S01 / CRN: 16700","_id":"n4APzoHlsjbtoUAh"}
{"title":"Inequality of Opportunity in the US","teaser":"This course examines empirical evidence on inequality of opportunity in the US. We cover recent work in economics that measures the importance of parents, schools, health care, neighborhoods, income, and race in determining children's long-term labor market success, and implications of these findings for US public policy. We will also place the empirical work in historical and philosophical context and cover a variety of statistical issues. Prerequisites: ECON 1110 or 1130; and ECON 1620, 1629, or 1630. Enrollment limited to 30 seniors.","info":"Nathaniel G. Hilger (Primary) / ECON 1375 S01 / CRN: 15857","_id":"n4Dbv4BgR8PGhffe"}
{"title":"God and Poetry (JUDS 0820)","teaser":"Interested students must register for JUDS 0820 (CRN 14677).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 0812E S01 / CRN: 16538","_id":"n93VkOrHwLkMnt4K"}
{"title":"Dissertation Workshop","teaser":"No description available. Undergraduates require instructor permission to enroll.","info":"Christopher S. Hill (Primary) / PHIL 2800 S01 / CRN: 16261","_id":"n9nytDVwKYHXRgmv"}
{"title":"Biological Foundations of the Mind","teaser":"The goal of this course is to introduce students to the study of the biological foundations of cognitive science and psychology.  We will use readings from neuroanatomy, cell and molecular biology, genetics, evolutionary biology, neuroethology, and behavioral neuroscience to elucidate principles and to understand methods for exploring the neural control of complex behaviors.","info":"Andrea Megela Simmons (Primary) / CLPS 2400 S01 / CRN: 15768","_id":"nTsBHqFWdqzZ0Wc6"}
{"title":"Introduction to Akkadian","teaser":"An intensive introduction to the cuneiform writing system and the basic grammar and vocabulary of Akkadian, a language first attested over four thousand years ago in Mesopotamia (modern Iraq). The earliest known member of the Semitic family of languages (like Arabic and Hebrew), Akkadian was in use for over two thousand years across a wide expanse of the ancient Near East. Students will learn the classical Old Babylonian dialect of Akkadian (ca. 1800 BCE) and read Mesopotamian texts in the original, including selections from the Laws of Hammurabi, as well as excerpts from myths, hymns, prayers, historical documents, and letters.","info":"Zackary Micah Wainer (Primary) / ASYR 1000 S01 / CRN: 16890","_id":"nbmy0o57KpFODPer"}
{"title":"Principles of Biostatistics and Data Analysis","teaser":"Intensive first course in biostatistical methodology, focusing on problems arising in public health, life sciences, and biomedical disciplines. Summarizing and representing data; basic probability; fundamentals of inference; hypothesis testing; likelihood methods. Inference for means and proportions; linear regression and analysis of variance; basics of experimental design; nonparametrics; logistic regression. Open to advanced undergraduates with permission from the instructor.","info":"Cici X. C. Bauer (Primary) / PHP 2510 S01 / CRN: 16774","_id":"ncEN5XPmxls6Moli"}
{"title":"Japanese Linguistics: Communication and Understanding Utterances","teaser":"Introduces a linguistic analysis of Japanese language to attain an overview of structure and a foundation for understanding how grammar relates to various modes of communication. Topics include discourse analysis, pragmatics, communicative intention, communication strategies, and intercultural communication gaps. Linguistic data is drawn from films and fiction. Prerequisite: basic knowledge of Japanese grammar, vocabulary, and linguistics. Enrollment limited to 20. WRIT","info":"Kikuko Yamashita (Primary) / JAPN 1310 S01 / CRN: 14985","_id":"noq2Rpf2Fm2cvBlB"}
{"title":"Dissertation Preparation","teaser":"For graduate students who are preparing a dissertation and who have met the tuition requirement and are paying the registration fee to continue active enrollment.","info":"HIAA 2991 S01 / CRN: 14580","_id":"now15jATeg05i35S"}
{"title":"Post Conflict Politics","teaser":"What, if anything, can the international community do to keep peace in countries\nwracked by civil war? Why does international intervention succeed in some countries but\nnot others? How can war-torn societies overcome the myriad challenges inherent in post-\nconflict politics, including disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of ex-\ncombatants; repatriation of refugees; transitional justice; and reconciliation of wartime\nadversaries. This senior seminar addresses these questions through a combination of case\nstudies, in-class discussions and debates, and readings from a wide variety of academic,\npolicy and philosophical sources. While there are no prerequisites for the course, some\nfamiliarity with quantitative data analysis will be useful. WRIT","info":"Robert Blair (Primary) / POLS 1824B S01 / CRN: 16259","_id":"nsizOnwsl5OUD370"}
{"title":"Introduction to Semiconductors and Semiconductor Electronics","teaser":"An introduction to the physics of fundamental electronic processes that underlie the operation of semiconductor devices on a microscopic scale.  Basic electronic properties of semiconductors and effects at interfaces heterogeneous media, such as pn junctions and hetero-structure barriers and quantum wells.  These junctions, barriers and wells are used as building blocks for devices, focusing on bipolar and field-effect transistors.  Modern trends in micro- and opto-electronic devices are discussed.  A brief fabrication lab will introduce pn junction fabrication technology. Prerequisites: ENGN 0410 and 0510.","info":"Jingming Xu (Primary) / ENGN 1590 S01 / CRN: 16449","_id":"nxd35okO1OaOaFhB"}
{"title":"Speaking Professionally for Internationals","teaser":"This course develops the English communication skills of international graduate students with an emphasis on intelligibility of speech and clarity of expression in a variety of teaching and professional situations (e.g. presenting material, responding to questions, directing discussions). Students develop increased facility of English in extended discourse when they are the authority in a teaching or other professional context. Instructor permission required.","info":"Mary R. Leuchak (Primary) / EINT 2400 S01 / CRN: 14808","_id":"o3c1OrbUQxWc3EiM"}
{"title":"Alcohol Use and Misuse","teaser":"Reviews the epidemiology of alcohol use, abuse, and dependence and examines its neurobiological and behavioral underpinnings. Covers etiology including physiological, genetic, psychological and social cultural influences, and prevention, brief intervention and treatment considerations. Course background in psychology, sociology, or community health is recommended. Recommended prerequisites: PHP 0320 and CLPS 0010. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors, seniors, and graduate students.","info":"Kate B. Carey (Primary) / PHP 1540 S01 / CRN: 15896","_id":"o4OdqlYW4APWAlG0"}
{"title":"Ecological Approach to Perception and Action","teaser":"The ecological approach treats perceiving and acting as activities of agent-environment system rather than an isolated \"mind,\" and offers an alternative to the prevailing computational/representational view. Topics include inferential and direct perception, perception of the 3D environment, visual control of action, dynamics of motor coordination, and self-organization of behavior. Lecture and discussion. Prerequisite (any one of the following): CLPS 0010 (PSYC 0010), CLPS 0020 (COGS 0010), CLPS 0500 (COGS/PSYC 0440), or CLPS 0510 (COGS 0110).","info":"William H. Warren Jr. (Primary) / CLPS 1500 S01 / CRN: 15761","_id":"o85XV7bGZl08sR2T"}
{"title":"Hysteria's Women: Literature, Psychoanalysis, and Feminist Theory","teaser":"This course interrogates how psychoanalysis understands the relation between the sexuated body, femininity, knowledge, and desire. We will read texts at the intersection of literature and film, feminist studies, continental philosophy, and postcolonial studies to consider the specific challenges that feminism poses for psychoanalysis, particularly an international feminism that is attentive to class, race, and history. Readings will include texts by Freud, Lacan, Beauvoir, Irigaray, Gallop, Rose, Cornell, Spivak, and Djebar. Films could include: \"A Dangerous Method\" (Dir. John Kerr), \"Her\" (Dir. Spike Jonze), and \"Fire\" (Dir. Deepa Mehta).","info":"GNSS 1960Z S01 / CRN: 16733","_id":"oCZEbrfZe10dMcii"}
{"title":"Design of Mechanical Assemblies","teaser":"An introduction to the design and development of mechanical assemblies suitable for production over a range of volumes, from prototypes to high volume manufacture.  The course is intended to present an overview of basic machine components and manufacturing processes from the perspective of a design engineer in a contemporary industrial setting.  The objective of which being to provide students the background necessary to create mechanical assemblies from blank-page concepts through to production ready designs.  Coursework will include both theoretical and experimental exercises as well as two group projects working on a mechanical assembly produced via high volume manufacture. Prerequisite: ENGN 0310, 1740. Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Brian C. Burke (Primary) / ENGN 1931D S01 / CRN: 16461","_id":"oDZ3gEd7InneOjxQ"}
{"title":"An Introduction to GIS and Spatial Analysis for Anthropologists and Archaeologists ","teaser":"This course serves as an introduction to the concepts, techniques, and (to a lesser extent, the histories) that motivate geographic information systems and their employment in anthropological and archaeological scholarship. GIS brings together traditional cartographic principles, computer-assisted analytical cartography, relational database design, and digital image processing and analysis to enable people to develop geospatial databases, analyze those databases, and use maps and other visual representations as part of this analysis. No previous work in GIS or computer programming is necessary. Previous computer experience with MS Windows operating systems is helpful. DPLL LILE","info":"ANTH 1201 S01 / CRN: 16730","_id":"oFt7La8z44i0X8s4"}
{"title":"Algebra","teaser":"Basic properties of groups, rings, fields, and modules. Topics include: finite groups, representations of groups, rings with minimum condition, Galois theory, local rings, algebraic number theory, classical ideal theory, basic homological algebra, and elementary algebraic geometry.","info":"Dan Abramovich (Primary) / MATH 2510 S01 / CRN: 15392","_id":"oJl9CTaXLWzg4QiF"}
{"title":"Mesoamerican Archaeology and Ethnohistory","teaser":"Seminar focusing on current issues in the archaeology and history of Mesoamerica, including Mexico and Northern Central America. Draws on rich resources at Brown, including the John Carter Brown Library.","info":"Stephen D. Houston (Primary) / ANTH 2520 S01 / CRN: 16878","_id":"oVDygroOOyupuP1H"}
{"title":"Introductory Russian","teaser":"Introduction to Russian language and culture. Oral and written communication in Russian; emphasis on the literary and everyday culture of Russia and the former U.S.S.R., including the changes that have reshaped everyday life for citizens of Russia. Five meetings per week, plus use of audio, video, and web materials.  Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"Lynne Debenedette (Primary) / RUSS 0100 S01 / CRN: 15987","_id":"oVt8gaCO94tY3jSO"}
{"title":"The Racial Lives of Affect (ENGL 2761F)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ENGL 2761F (CRN 15455).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"AMST 2220H S01 / CRN: 16605","_id":"oXJtSbbm27dRU862"}
{"title":"Crime and the City","teaser":"This course surveys aspects of crime and policing in the contemporary urban environment. Topics include low-level criminality, the over policing/under policing paradox, neighborhood change, transgression, applications of spatial theory to normative constructions of criminality, and the ways in which members of urban-based subcultures (from graffiti writers to gang members and homeless youth) and marginalized communities occupy public space. DPLL LILE","info":"Stefano E. Bloch (Primary) / URBN 1230 S01 / CRN: 16602","_id":"oY2VeNx20KTs8rF9"}
{"title":"History of Medicine I: Medical Traditions in the Old World Before 1700","teaser":"People have always attempted to promote health and prolong life, and to ameliorate bodily suffering. Those living in parts of Eurasia also developed textual traditions that, together with material remains, allow historians to explore their medical practices and explanations, including changes in their traditions, sometimes caused by interactions with other peoples of Europe, Asia, and Africa. We'll introduce students to major medical traditions of the Old World to 1700, with  emphasis on Europe, and explore some reasons for change. A knowledge of languages and the social and natural sciences is welcome not required. P","info":"Harold J. Cook (Primary) / HIST 0286A S01 / CRN: 14896","_id":"oc0iCh5M6WYoluz2"}
{"title":"On Being Bored (ENGL 1511L)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ENGL 1511L (CRN 15624).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 1812T S01 / CRN: 16338","_id":"ocyY2OlGQK4RcU1n"}
{"title":"Ancient Maya Writing (ANTH 1650)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ANTH 1650 (CRN 16201).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ARCH 1233 S01 / CRN: 16736","_id":"od7UKZAjDPIJ1acG"}
{"title":"Religious Freedom in America","teaser":"\"Religious freedom,\" former Secretary Hilary Rodham Clinton remarked in 2009, \"provides a cornerstone for every healthy society.\"  It is, Clinton continued, \"a founding principle of our nation.\"  As Clinton's remarks illustrate, the concept of religious freedom is central to how people perceive the history of the United States and its position in the world today.  But what is religious freedom?  Does it actually exist?  Has it ever?  This seminar invites students to ask and answer these and other questions about the contested concept, engaging such varied issues as race, secularism, law, media, money, pluralism, and foreign policy. DPLL LILE WRIT","info":"Daniel Vaca (Primary) / RELS 0845 S01 / CRN: 15823","_id":"oeEoudsn9FLRi5n9"}
{"title":"Children's Thinking: The Nature of Cognitive Development","teaser":"An examination of children's thinking and cognitive development from infancy to middle childhood. Considers a range of topics including memory, reasoning, categorization, perception, and children's understanding of concepts such as space, time, number, mind, and biology. Major theories of cognitive development are described and evaluated in light of the available psychological data. LILE","info":"David M. Sobel (Primary) / CLPS 0610 S01 / CRN: 15724","_id":"ogUhjueCxKIYNNm6"}
{"title":"Preliminary Examination Preparation","teaser":"For graduate students who have met the tuition requirement and are paying the registration fee to continue active enrollment while preparing for a preliminary examination.","info":"AFRI 2970 S01 / CRN: 14532","_id":"onJOgqCjqz7vORcT"}
{"title":"Anthropology of Masculinity","teaser":"Contemporary anthropological and historical study of masculine identities and practices throughout the world, focusing on topics such as the cultural economies of masculinity, cultural regions and images of manhood, male friendship, machismo, embodied masculinity, violence, power, and sexual fault lines.\nPrerequisite: Prior course in Social Science or instructor's permission required.  LILE","info":"Matthew C. Gutmann (Primary) / ANTH 1221 S01 / CRN: 16195","_id":"osUpS7PyFriWltWJ"}
{"title":"Perverse Cinema (ENGL 1762A)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ENGL 1762A (CRN 15501).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"MCM 1202T S01 / CRN: 16324","_id":"oxcTuLZOugj7EOhu"}
{"title":"Greek Bucolic Poetry ","teaser":"Ancient Greek bucolic (or pastoral) poetry offers a fascinating look into the development of a genre out of the literary experiments of the early Hellenistic period. True to its name, the tradition centers around Theocritus’ colorful, often ironically humorous dialogues between herdsmen and other rural characters; but it encompasses a variety of themes, among them mythology, lamentation, and melodramatic narratives of unrequited love. We will read a broad selection of this body of poetry, by Theocritus and others, in the original Greek with attention to its linguistic and stylistic features and its place in the wider literary tradition.","info":"Joseph D. Reed (Primary) / GREK 1100B S01 / CRN: 16106","_id":"ozdK03OWdV7InhjV"}
{"title":"Monetary and Fiscal Policy","teaser":"This course is about macroeconomic policy with special focus on the recent economic crisis.\n Questions will be addressed such as: How does monetary policy affect the economy? What is the\n effect of government spending and tax cuts? What should the government do in the event of a\n financial crisis? The main objective of the course is to introduce students to the type of models and methods used in current research in macroeconomics both in the scholarly literature but also in the practice of central banks and major policy institutions.","info":"Gauti B. Eggertsson (Primary) / ECON 1220 S01 / CRN: 15856","_id":"p5Qv4qzwT9PCRxyh"}
{"title":"Disobedience and Resistance","teaser":"Why should we to obey the laws that states make? Unsurprisingly, there are numerous counter-theories, practices  of disobedience: revolution, mass strikes, sabotage, civil disobedience and conscientious objection. Other kinds of resistance – like mass protests, political strikes, and boycotts – hover on the border of disobedience itself. This course begins with a brief examination of theories of political obligation before moving to a discussion of different, concrete examples of disobedience and the political ideas that they produced.  We will discuss revolution, mass strikes, and civil disobedience as paradigm cases of the political problems raised by actually existing, illegitimate laws and governments.","info":"Alexander H. Gourevitch (Primary) / POLS 2235 S02 / CRN: 16257","_id":"p6zH5l1HvyPZT76x"}
{"title":"Introduction to Interdisciplinary American Studies","teaser":"This graduate-level course offers an introduction to the discipline of American Studies through a close reading of four important texts representing different methodologies and theories within the discipline. We will also read a series of seminal articles focused on transnationalism, highlighting the significance of border-crossings to the American experience throughout the semester.  The goal of the course is to familiarize students with pedagogical approaches within American Studies, through active seminar discussions, fieldtrips within the community, and work with material and visual media as well as secondary texts.","info":"Caroline B. Frank (Primary) / AMST 2020E S01 / CRN: 15101","_id":"pEvTcesJdk1q9afd"}
{"title":"Queer and Feminist Poetics: Hybrid Forms, 1969 to Present","teaser":"How do queer and feminist text engage formal experiment? This course will explore the political, conceptual, and rhetorical uses of queer and feminist discourses in contemporary hybrid-genre writing. William S. Burroughs, Kathy Acker, Allen Ginsberg, Sylvia Plath, Gloria Anzaldúa, Jack Spicer, Alice Notley, CAConrad, Christian Hawkey, and Ronaldo Wilson. Enrollment limited to 17. WRIT","info":"Aaron A Apps (Primary) / ENGL 0200B S01 / CRN: 15600","_id":"pFqq50cGrw6HM8YZ"}
{"title":"Analytic Geometry and Calculus","teaser":"MATH 0050 and 0060 provide a slower-paced introduction to calculus for students who require additional preparation. Presents the same calculus topics as MATH 0090, together with a review of the necessary precalculus topics. Students successfully completing this sequence are prepared for MATH 0100. Prerequisite: for MATH 0050 is written permission; for MATH 0060 is MATH 0050 or written permission. S/NC only.","info":"Alan Landman (Primary) / MATH 0050 S01 / CRN: 15316","_id":"pFuG8CRcZ9oswjaF"}
{"title":"Hamlet Post-Hamlet","teaser":"Shakespeare’s Hamlet is perhaps the most widely read, performed, adapted, parodied and imitated literary text of the western tradition. In this seminar we will begin by reading/re-reading the play before turning to a number of appropriations of Shakespeare, both in the west and non-west, in order to address social and aesthetic issues including questions of meaning and interpretation, intertextuality and cultural translation. First Year Seminar. Enrollment limited to 20. FYS","info":"Karen Newman (Primary) / COLT 0812A S01 / CRN: 15880","_id":"pI6VpGts48PzvSI6"}
{"title":"The Brain: An Introduction to Neuroscience","teaser":"Introduction to the mammalian nervous system with emphasis on the structure and function of the human brain. Topics include the function of nerve cells, sensory systems, control of movement and speech, learning and memory, emotion, and diseases of the brain.  No prerequisites, but knowledge of biology and chemistry at the high school level is assumed. LILE","info":"Michael A. Paradiso (Primary) / NEUR 0010 S01 / CRN: 15814","_id":"pLrmJp1hbnr0NMxV"}
{"title":"Chinese: A History of the Language","teaser":"This course traces the historical evolution of modern Chinese, commonly known as Mandarin.  We will examine the uniqueness of Chinese characters, and explore their relationship to other features of the language, including word formation, phonology, grammar, and dialects.  The goal will be to understand the manner by which the written script has become so central to the development of Chinese civilization.","info":"Zhuqing Li (Primary) / EAST 1510 S01 / CRN: 14986","_id":"pNRJKn2paGWaBskj"}
{"title":"Topics in Language Acquisition: Language Acquisition and Cognitive Development","teaser":"What is the relationship between how we think and how we speak? This course explores the concurrent development of children's linguistic and cognitive abilities. Topics include the relationship between word meanings and concepts, the structure of the mental lexicon, pragmatic development, and the Whorfian hypothesis (whether speakers of different languages think differently). Students will read and discuss empirical and theoretical articles, and complete a set of writing assignments and problem sets. Prerequisite: CLPS 0610 or equivalent, or permission of the instructor. Appropriate for students interested in developmental/cognitive psychology, linguistics, and applied fields such as speech-language pathology.","info":"James L. Morgan (Primary) / CLPS 1385 S01 / CRN: 15766","_id":"phKoKIl9LGHLREiE"}
{"title":"Approaches to The Middle East","teaser":"This seminar introduces students to the interdisciplinary field of Middle East Studies in the broader context of the history of area studies in the humanities and social sciences.   Why and when did the Middle East become an area of study? What are the approaches and topics that have shaped the development of this field? And what are the political implications of contending visions for its future?  The readings sample canonical and alternative works and the classes feature visits by leading scholars who research and write on this region. WRIT","info":"Beshara B. Doumani (Primary) / HIST 1968 S01 / CRN: 15426","_id":"pisWrXKueIfutO21"}
{"title":"Intermediate Italian I","teaser":"Review of the fundamentals of grammar, with emphasis on speaking and writing.  Reading of representative short stories.  Weekly compositions, presentations, and a paper.  Three Italian films.  Prerequisite:  ITAL 0100-0200, or ITAL 0110, or placement by examination.  Requirement for enrollment in the Bologna Program.","info":"Cristina Abbona-Sneider (Primary) / ITAL 0300 S01 / CRN: 15312","_id":"pjucuT8cymZX2mM8"}
{"title":"Population and Clinical Medicine I","teaser":"This is the first semester of Population and Clinical Medicine, a two-semester course focused on the integration of population medicine and clinical practice.  In this course, students will focus on topics integral to clinical medicine, but expand beyond the patient into the population and beyond.  Given the importance of population health interventions for impacting the health of vulnerable and underserved patients, the course will focus on issues affecting these populations.","info":"Jordan White (Primary) / MED 2050 S01 / CRN: 16939","_id":"psPBbHQuDKr3zrMn"}
{"title":"Introductory Czech","teaser":"Introduces the performance of basic tasks in Standard Czech, highlights of Czech culture, and a worldview of a nation uniquely located on the threshold of western and eastern Europe. Emphasis on oral communication. Five meetings per week and use of audio/visual materials. Enrollment limited to 18.","info":"Masako Ueda Fidler (Primary) / CZCH 0100 S01 / CRN: 15194","_id":"puCSu9ZD58A8UIGk"}
{"title":"Classical Sociological Theory","teaser":"Why do we follow social rules and conventions? And how is social change – that is, the making of new rules and expectations – possible? When we respond to rules, do we act as free-willing individuals or do we follows social structures we have no control over? These questions have motivated generations of sociologists, but many of the arguments have been already developed by the four \"forefathers\" of sociology: Karl Marx, Max Weber, Emile Durkheim, and Georg Simmel. Looking at the transformations around them – the rise of capitalism, the modern nation-state, rational bureaucracy, the metropolitan, the decline of religion, and much more – they developed arguments that allow us to better understand ourselves, our actions, and the contemporary political, economic and social transformations around us. WRIT","info":"Scott A. Frickel (Primary) / SOC 1010 S01 / CRN: 15431","_id":"pySFfDfZxlclSi5O"}
{"title":"Imagining the American Mind","teaser":"How are theories about our minds and brains represented in American culture?  We use literature and film, psychology, neuroscience, philosophy, history and sociology to investigate how we imagine our minds, and the consequences of those representations for our ideas about race and gender, for our social lives and responsibilities, for our means to communicate to one another and, even, to know ourselves.  Writing in different formats, students bridge the gap between the humanities and the human sciences.  Concentrators in biology and neuroscience consider the cultural history of their research while humanities/social science students explore how culture ties to science.  WRIT","info":"Sarah Ann Brown (Primary) / AMST 0191U S01 / CRN: 16869","_id":"pz9wsrXDQsQtpVvB"}
{"title":"Senior Honors Thesis in Nonfiction Writing","teaser":"Independent research and writing under the direction of the student’s Nonfiction Writing honors supervisor. Permission should be obtained from the Honors Advisor for Nonfiction Writing. Open to senior English concentrators pursuing Honors in Nonfiction Writing. Instructor permission required.","info":"Catherine Imbriglio (Primary) / ENGL 1994 S01 / CRN: 15421","_id":"q1XlFk2ijIEVF59F"}
{"title":"Corporate Finance","teaser":"A study of theories of decision-making within corporations, with empirical evidence as background. Topics include capital budgeting, risk, securities issuance, capital structure, dividend policy, compensation policy, mergers and acquisitions, real options, financial engineering, securitization. Prerequisite: ECON 1110 or 1130; and ECON 1620 or 1630 or APMA 1650.","info":"Neil R. Mehrotra (Primary) / ECON 1720 S01 / CRN: 15862","_id":"q1cfJD7Hvjxzi4yA"}
{"title":"Fiction into Film","teaser":"A study of various directors' attempts to transfer masterpieces of fiction into film. Concerning both genres we will ask Gertrude Stein's question: What are masterpieces, and why are there so few of them? Includes fiction by Austen, Bierce, Carter, Cowley, Doyle, Faulkner, Forster, Fowles, Kesey, Joyce, McCullers, Morrison, Nabokov, O'Connor, Thompson, Walker, Spielberg, Woolf, Yamamoto as directed by Burton, Forman, Felini, Gilliam, Huston, Jordan, Kurasawa, Lee, Potter, and others. Class and weekly screenings. Enrollment limited to 12. S/NC. WRIT\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Meredith Steinbach (Primary) / LITR 1110S S01 / CRN: 15552","_id":"q3TqybpyjbnbgiRy"}
{"title":"Japanese Cities: Tokyo and Kyoto","teaser":"The goal of this course is to develop the ability to use Japanese source materials for research in social sciences. Course covers lifestyles in two contrasting cities, Tokyo and Kyoto. Topics include topography, environmental issues, houses, urban life-styles, and natural habitation. We will ask questions: why houses are so compact in cities; why crows and boars pick on garbage, etc. Information sources are films, videos, and websites in addition to textbooks. Prerequisite: JAPN 0600 or equivalent. Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Kikuko Yamashita (Primary) / JAPN 0910B S01 / CRN: 14982","_id":"q5RhiRnuRM1TRnd3"}
{"title":"Comparative Historical Analysis","teaser":"The seminar focuses on the application of theory and method in historical sociology. It will combine the reading of exemplary works, both classical and current, in comparative-historical sociology, with an exploration of historical methods that involves methodological readings but focuses on students' use of archives in their own individual research. For graduate students only.","info":"Nitsan Chorev (Primary) / SOC 2600 S01 / CRN: 15451","_id":"q68GGWpi3CDIcA7u"}
{"title":"Introduction to Computational Linear Algebra","teaser":"Focuses on fundamental algorithms in computational linear algebra with relevance to all science concentrators. Basic linear algebra and matrix decompositions (Cholesky, LU, QR, etc.), round-off errors and numerical analysis of errors and convergence. Iterative methods and conjugate gradient techniques. Computation of eigenvalues and eigenvectors, and an introduction to least squares methods.","info":"George E. Karniadakis (Primary) / APMA 1170 S01 / CRN: 15798","_id":"qAHdDruo0oljnjGQ"}
{"title":"Literature and the Problem of Poverty","teaser":"Explores poverty as a political and aesthetic problem for the American novelist. Examines the ways that writers have imagined the poor as dangerous others, agents of urban decay, bearers of folk culture, and engines of class revolt. Also considers these literary texts in relation to historical debates about economic inequality. Writers may include Crane, Faulkner, Wright, Steinbeck, and Hurston.","info":"Rolland D. Murray (Primary) / ENGL 1710K S01 / CRN: 15497","_id":"qRGNHyy5CHaFFiTA"}
{"title":"History of Brazil (HIST 1310)","teaser":"Interested students must register for HIST 1310 (CRN 14931).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"POBS 1670 S01 / CRN: 16354","_id":"qTdwGpF9e9jHqjGm"}
{"title":"Further Adventures in Creative Nonfiction","teaser":"For the advanced writer. A workshop course for students who have taken ENGL 0180 or the equivalent and are looking for further explorations of voice and form. Work can include personal essays, literary journalism and travel writing. Readings from Ian Frazier, Joan Didion, David Sedaris, John McPhee and others. Writing sample required.  Prerequisite: ENGL 0930 or any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. Class list will be reduced to 17 after writing samples are reviewed during the first week of classes. Preference will be given to English concentrators. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC.","info":"Edward Hardy (Primary) / ENGL 1180P S01 / CRN: 15397","_id":"qZ8YpqS5PhrIBIeb"}
{"title":"Combinatorial Topology","teaser":"Topology of Euclidean spaces, winding number and applications, knot theory, fundamental group and covering spaces. Euler characteristic, simplicial complexes, classification of two-dimensional manifolds, vector fields, the Poincaré-Hopf theorem, and introduction to three-dimensional topology. Prerequisites: MATH 0520 or MATH 0540, or instructor permission.","info":"Richard E. Schwartz (Primary) / MATH 1410 S01 / CRN: 15381","_id":"qZSy3qW0lWMGOjwG"}
{"title":"Advanced Topics in Landscape History (HMAN 1971P)","teaser":"Interested students must register for HMAN 1971P (CRN 16609).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"HIST 1981B S01 / CRN: 16865","_id":"qaJ5HsRuHKANGVkP"}
{"title":"Politics, Markets and States in Developing Countries","teaser":"How can we explain fundamental differences in economic performance and policy across developing countries in the face of Globalization? Why are some countries praised as economic \"miracles,\" yet others seem mired in inescapable stagnation? This course addresses these questions by introducing the basic topics, concepts, and theoretical approaches that comprise the field of political economy of development. The course draws on case studies from Asia, Africa, and Latin America.","info":"Richard O. Snyder (Primary) / POLS 1240 S01 / CRN: 15025","_id":"qdW8a7VNVBKpW0YD"}
{"title":"Honors Linear Algebra","teaser":"Linear algebra for students of greater aptitude and motivation, especially mathematics and science concentrators with a good mathematical preparation. Matrices, linear equations, determinants, and eigenvalues; vector spaces and linear transformations; inner products; Hermitian, orthogonal, and unitary matrices; and Jordan normal forms. Provides a more extensive treatment of the topics in MATH 0520. Recommended prerequisites: MATH 0180, 0200, or 0350.","info":"MATH 0540 S01 / CRN: 15374","_id":"qfAoxBadDf3aPq8M"}
{"title":"Introduction to Econometrics I","teaser":"The probabilistic and statistical basis of inference in econometrics.","info":"Eric M. Renault (Primary) / ECON 2030 S01 / CRN: 15173","_id":"qie3lQP1HNXrE0wX"}
{"title":"Seminar: Hellenistic Poetry","teaser":"In this seminar we will read in their original Greek version extended portions of three major Alexandrian poets' works: Apollonius of Rhodes, Callimachus, and Theocritus, supplemented by readings in Hellenistic epigrams and other texts as well as secondary literature. We will pay attention to the social, political and literary environment of third century Alexandria, where –under very special conditions– these works were produced and received for the first time.  We shall investigate the nature of the Hellenistic aesthetic, the relation of Hellenistic to archaic and classical poetry, and the way Hellenistic poetry is a reflection of its time and place.","info":"Pura Nieto Hernandez (Primary) / GREK 2070B S01 / CRN: 15948","_id":"qpqsDPGR48eQvBSz"}
{"title":"From Courtly Love to Postmodern Desire","teaser":"From twelth-century courtly literature to contemporary film, this course explores the enduring romance between French culture and Eros. The ambiguities of desire are brought to the fore across changing religious and social contexts. Readings include Duras, Flaubert, Freud, and Baudrillard. Open to students who receive a 5 (AP test), 700 and above (SAT II) or with instructor's permission. First Year Seminar, open to first year students only.  Please email Virginia_Krause@brown.edu if you have questions.  Taught in French. FYS WRIT","info":"Virginia A. Krause (Primary) / FREN 0720A S01 / CRN: 16172","_id":"qwoKwFNeBxNE4IFV"}
{"title":"Digital Language Art II","teaser":"Project-oriented workshop for writers, visual/sound artists, filmmakers, and programmers wishing to explore techniques for effective and innovative use of text in digital media. Topics include hypertext narrative, kinetic poetry, and recombinant and computer-generated texts. Collaboration encouraged. Work sample (writing, programming, website) due on first day of semester. Enrollment limited to 17. Instructor permission required. S/NC. WRIT","info":"LITR 0210D L01 / CRN: 15847","_id":"r03bQAGqYMz3CXg5"}
{"title":"Voice: Dialects and Accents","teaser":"This course is open only to students of the Brown University/Trinity Rep MFA Consortium program. This course will teach actors various American regional dialects and international accents including British, Irish, Italian and Russian. Students will examine the language with the use of the International Phonetic Alphabet, and will be expected to perform using the regionalisms and dialect and then teach it to the rest of the class.","info":"Stephen Berenson (Primary) / TAPS 2710 S01 / CRN: 11017","_id":"r6rJHB3F4d1GEWCD"}
{"title":"Graduate Playwriting","teaser":"With Word as the bodying forth into social reality of original\n experience, the structures, purposes and ethical risks of writing for\nperformance are examined; experienced through the reading of each\n other's works-in-progress, through the reading of essays and in\n session exercises.  Must be taken by playwriting grad students every\n semester in residence. May be taken multiple times for credit.\n Undergraduates will be admitted with permission of the instructor.\n Contact Erik_Ehn@Brown.edu using \"Grad PW\" in the subject line.\n Permission will be given once manuscripts have been reviewed. S/NC","info":"Marcus Gardley (Primary) / TAPS 2310 S01 / CRN: 16156","_id":"r7cuSfWg45djzcWp"}
{"title":"Russian Jewish Literature and Film","teaser":"The roots of Russian Jewish literature reach back into the Pale of Settlement of the pre-revolutionary era. The Russian Jewish historical experience provided a highly distinctive perspective onto Stalin’s purges and the second World War, and the work of contemporary Russian Jewish authors and filmmakers reflects the complexity of the immigrant experience in Europe, North America, and the Middle East. We will also examine the diverse responses of writers to the present-day redrawing of the political map of Russia and Ukraine.","info":"Alexandar Mihailovic (Primary) / RUSS 1900 S01 / CRN: 16845","_id":"r9VrE5DgetPLTd7W"}
{"title":"On Being Bored","teaser":"This course explores texts/films that represent and formally express states of non-productivity or non-desire. Beginning with the Enlightenment and romantic periods, we will reflect on narratives with neither progress nor plot, characters that resist characterization, and poems that deny assertion and revelation. Authors include: Kleist, Kant, Rousseau, Coleridge, de Quincey, Keats, Blanchot, Levinas, Beckett, Ashbery, Schuyler.","info":"Jacques Khalip (Primary) / ENGL 1511L S01 / CRN: 15624","_id":"rBbiHW17yz79q7Cr"}
{"title":"Issues in Syntactic Theory","teaser":"This course will explore a variety of domains in (primarily) English syntax which have played a key role in the construction of syntactic theories. We will consider two major competing syntactic theories - the 'mainstream' current theory within the US ('Minimalism') and a competing view (Categorial Grammar) which maintains that the syntax can be simplified with more attention to semantics and pragmatics. The course will show how theory construction proceeds and how the various domains interact in intricate and interesting ways, and how evidence from one domain can be brought to bear on the analysis of other domains.","info":"Pauline I. Jacobson (Primary) / CLPS 1332 S01 / CRN: 16483","_id":"rC2008kykIbbQWb5"}
{"title":"Power and Prosperity in Urban America","teaser":"Over the past twenty years, many American cities have experienced comebacks: growing numbers of upper- income residents have relocated to cities; downtowns have been transformed into lively arts and entertainment districts; and crime has fallen.  How did cities achieve these transformations?  Why were some cities more successful than others?  How has the revitalization of cities affected the urban poor?  The course will also examine the impact of the “Great Recession” on cities.  Did the recession jeopardize recent gains in urban prosperity?  How have cities coped with the fiscal strains presented by reduced tax revenues and limits on state and federal assistance? WRIT","info":"POLS 1824D S01 / CRN: 16905","_id":"rIIQPHA8MzXLbtBD"}
{"title":"Macroeconometrics and Financial Econometrics","teaser":"Method of Moments (GMM) and Empirical Likelihood (EL).\n Kernel methods for density and regression estimation.\n Optimal instruments and local EL.\n Applications to non-linear time series models, Euler equations and asset pricing.","info":"Eric M. Renault (Primary) / ECON 2660 S01 / CRN: 15185","_id":"rLJKxd2XjNZKDm3Z"}
{"title":"Violence, Governance, and Transnationalism","teaser":"This seminar deals with contemporary anthropological approaches to violence, governance, and transnationalism. As faculty and graduate students, we have worked together to identify important ethnographic experiments that provide novel anthropological framings of major global issues. Our goal is to interrogate anthropological writing, explore its relation to field research, and trace anthropological appropriations of contemporary social theory from a variety of sources. Prerequisites: three previous courses in Anthropology.","info":"Kay B. Warren (Primary) / ANTH 2310A S01 / CRN: 16217","_id":"rTR63sxLM5M3iJUh"}
{"title":"Difficult Relations? Judaism and Christianity from the Middle Ages until the Present","teaser":"Jewish and Christian identity in Europe has traditionally been closely connected to the ways the two religions view each other.  Mutual admiration, influence, and hatred have combined together in a difficult relationship, fundamental to European history.  In this course, we will survey that relationship, examining some key issues and events which shaped it.  The Jews' attitudes and actions will be examined alongside those of their Christian neighbors.  Topics covered include: medieval revulsion and attraction; early modern re-evaluations of Judaism and Christianity; modern Christian anti-Semitism, Jewish diplomacy, and the Holocaust; the effects of Vatican II; Israel and the contemporary Christian world.  FYS LILE WRIT DPLL","info":"Adam Teller (Primary) / JUDS 0050M S01 / CRN: 15077","_id":"rVFH9xgQYwc2rPrQ"}
{"title":"Fluid Mechanics I","teaser":"Formulation of the basic conservation laws for a viscous, heat conducting, compressible fluid. Molecular basis for thermodynamic and transport properties. Kinematics of vorticity and its transport and diffusion. Introduction to potential flow theory. Viscous flow theory; the application of dimensional analysis and scaling to obtain low and high Reynolds number limits.","info":"Martin R. Maxey (Primary) / ENGN 2810 S01 / CRN: 16474","_id":"rdfpJLPsikHG3g7b"}
{"title":"Botanical Roots of Modern Medicine","teaser":"This course will explore a variety of medicinal plants found throughout the world, the diverse cultures that use them in their daily lives and the scientific underpinnings of their medicinal uses. In conjunction with readings, students will gain a hands-on approach in lab, observing, identifying and growing these plants.  Enrollment limited to: 20. Students MUST register for the lecture section and the lab. FYS","info":"Fred V. Jackson (Primary) / BIOL 0190E L01 / CRN: 14735","_id":"rgdMrKTitKFtqKt5"}
{"title":"Beauty Pageants in American Society","teaser":"Beauty pageants are often ridiculed, and even vilified, in American society. Yet their cultural power—from “There She Is” to Toddlers + Tiaras to pageant waves—is undeniable. What accounts for the enduring power of beauty pageants? This course draws on inter-disciplinary scholarship across the social sciences and humanities to examine how and why pageantry and American femininity have become linked in the public consciousness. By the end of this course you will be able to use beauty pageants as a lens to carefully examine gender, race, age, and appearance, and apply that critical thinking to other pop culture phenomena. WRIT","info":"Hilary Levey Friedman (Primary) / AMST 1906H S01 / CRN: 16253","_id":"ri0wkTYoHPDInpTz"}
{"title":"The Social Lives of Dead Bodies in China and Beyond (HIST 0685A)","teaser":"Interested students must register for HIST 0685A (CRN 15417).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"SCSO 0700D S01 / CRN: 16392","_id":"rkxuIumUSBCytw5B"}
{"title":"Nonlinear Dynamical Systems: Theory and Applications","teaser":"Basic theory of ordinary differential equations, flows, and maps. Two-dimensional systems. Linear systems. Hamiltonian and integrable systems. Lyapunov functions and stability. Invariant manifolds, including stable, unstable, and center manifolds. Bifurcation theory and normal forms. Nonlinear oscillations and the method of averaging. Chaotic motion, including horseshoe maps and the Melnikov method. Applications in the physical and biological sciences.","info":"Anastasios Matzavinos (Primary) / APMA 2190 S01 / CRN: 15806","_id":"rmGqyOBrxc2oM9wg"}
{"title":"Applied Ordinary Differential Equations","teaser":"This course gives a comprehensive introduction to the qualitative and quantitative theory of ordinary differential equations and their applications. Specific topics covered in the course are applications of differential equations in biology, chemistry, economics, and physics; integrating factors and separable equations; techniques for solving linear systems of differential equations; numerical approaches to solving differential equations; phase-plane analysis of planar nonlinear systems; rigorous theoretical foundations of differential equations.\nFormat: Three hours of lectures, and one hour of recitation.\nPrerequisites: MATH 0100, 0170, 0180, 0190, 0200, 0350 or advanced placement.  MATH 0520 (can be taken concurrently).","info":"Bjorn Sandstede (Primary) / APMA 0350 S01 / CRN: 16567","_id":"rwTqrAZFaII1gsQ6"}
{"title":"Advanced Statistical Mechanics","teaser":"No description available.","info":"PHYS 2470 S01 / CRN: 15258","_id":"s0rGxBDQjbvRPp4R"}
{"title":"Ghanaian Drumming and Dancing Ensemble","teaser":"A dynamic introductory course on drumming, dancing, and singing of Ghana and the diaspora.  Students learn to perform diverse types of African music, including Ewe, Akan, Ga, and Dagomba pieces on drums, bells, and shakers.  No prerequisites.  May be repeated for credit.  Enrollment limited to 15. Instructor permission required.","info":"Martin K. Obeng (Primary) / MUSC 0640 S01 / CRN: 16047","_id":"s1JPTThWFlxFaAOn"}
{"title":"Seminar in Jazz Studies: The Changing Standard of Jazz","teaser":"This class studies the history and aesthetics of jazz by examining “standard” tunes and comparing multiple realizations by jazz artists. The most common standards have been arranged and recorded hundreds of times by jazz musicians and are still played daily in the repertoire or working musicians. We will consider how jazz artists reinterpret these tunes to “make a statement,” and will investigate how the renditions have evolved over time in response to changes of style and historical context. No background in jazz required, but students must have some fluency in basic musical concepts. Prerequisites: MUSC0400 or MUSC0550, or permission of instructor.","info":"Dana A. Gooley (Primary) / MUSC 1690D S01 / CRN: 16007","_id":"s2PrrLITbjuzg9kD"}
{"title":"Survey of Late and Medieval Latin","teaser":"A study of the masterworks of the Latin language written between 350 C.E. and 1300 C.E., with special emphasis on the 4th, 8th, and 12th centuries. The historical development of Latin literature; changes in Latin grammar, syntax, and morphology; innovations in genre, prosody, and stylistics; and the relationship of writings (manuscripts) to art and music.","info":"Joseph Michael Pucci (Primary) / LATN 1120C S01 / CRN: 15931","_id":"s3NTGRuqu2JW1uDN"}
{"title":"Intermediate Hindi-Urdu","teaser":"A continuation of HNDI 0100-0200, which is a prerequisite. Introduces the variation of the Arabic script used for Urdu. Prepares students to communicate in written and spoken language. Activities are conducted in Hindi/Urdu. Meets four hours weekly.","info":"Ashok K. Koul (Primary) / HNDI 0300 S01 / CRN: 14801","_id":"sBJWGqrJQpiBwiq1"}
{"title":"Laboratory in Social Cognition","teaser":"Examines principles of experimental design and analysis in the context of classic and contemporary research in social cognition. Students replicate and extend several studies on topics such as person perception, social stereotyping, or judgment and decision making. Students will participate in the design of these studies, gather their own data, analyze them, and report the findings in oral presentations and written reports. Prerequisites: CLPS 0010 (PSYC 0010), CLPS 0700 (PSYC 0210), and CLPS 0900 (PSYC/COGS 0090). Enrollment limited to 27.","info":"Joachim I. Krueger (Primary) / CLPS 1791 S01 / CRN: 15714","_id":"sKvnULDiNA5Un8ak"}
{"title":"The Enlightenment","teaser":"The Enlightenment: Introduction to the Enlightenment as a fragmented series of projects that aimed at human liberation and the understanding of the social and natural worlds, with massive implications for the way that we conceive of ourselves today.  Readings explore philosophy, science, slavery, economics, gender relations, and politics in the 18th century.\n FYS","info":"Joel W. Revill (Primary) / HIST 0522O S01 / CRN: 16658","_id":"sL7fscvdCRAD0nv9"}
{"title":"The Psychology of Teaching and Learning","teaser":"Seeks both to demystify the process of teaching and to illuminate its complexities. Assists students with such questions as: What shall I teach? How shall I teach it? Will my students respond? What if I have a discipline problem? Focuses on the teaching-learning process and student behavior, as well as research, theory, and illustrations concerned with classroom applications of psychological principles and ideas. Prerequisites: EDUC 0800 or EDUC 1710. Enrollment limited to 50.","info":"Margary D. Martin (Primary) / EDUC 1450 S01 / CRN: 14635","_id":"sLh49RLUGfJz0gs0"}
{"title":"International Trade","teaser":"Theory of comparative advantage, trade, and income distribution. Welfare analysis of trade: gains from trade, evaluation of the effects of trade policy instruments-tariffs, quotas, and subsidies. Trade under imperfect competition. Strategic trade policy. Trade, labor markets, preferential trade agreements, and the world trading systems. Prerequisite: ECON 1110 or 1130. Enrollment limited to 100.","info":"ECON 1540 S01 / CRN: 15860","_id":"sMUj4QFIXVP4Im3r"}
{"title":"Introduction to the American Political Process","teaser":"This course is designed to be an introduction to the American political process, broadly defined.  We will cover topics including but not limited to: Constitution, Federalism, Federal Budget, Congress, Presidency, Bureaucracy, Judiciary, Civil Rights, Civil Liberties, Public Opinion, Media, Interest Groups, Political Parties, Campaigns, Elections, and Participation.","info":"Katherine Tate (Primary) / POLS 0010 S01 / CRN: 15017","_id":"sPzfMNhRoprwqzev"}
{"title":"The Architecture of Islam (HIAA 0041)","teaser":"Interested students must register for HIAA 0041 (CRN 15481).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ARCH 0643 S01 / CRN: 16740","_id":"sawRLw07GAokw5pY"}
{"title":"State and Local Government","teaser":"Examines state and local politics and government in the United States. The first part of the course examines the historical underpinning and division of power of the major political actors, institutions, and processes through both institutionalist perspectives. The second part focuses on the role of states in shaping significant policy areas including civil unions, education, healthcare, welfare, and the environment. This course satisfies the American Institutions requirement.","info":"PLCY 1700Z S01 / CRN: 15705","_id":"sh9liDnvxCAWcULK"}
{"title":"Introduction to Computer Vision","teaser":"How can we program computers to understand the visual world? This course treats vision as inference from noisy and uncertain data and emphasizes probabilistic and statistical approaches. Topics may include perception of 3D scene structure from stereo, motion, and shading; segmentation and grouping; texture analysis; learning, object recognition; tracking and motion estimation. Strongly recommended: basic linear algebra, calculus, and probability.","info":"James H. Hays (Primary) / CSCI 1430 S01 / CRN: 16534","_id":"sixn6H6cX169MtkW"}
{"title":"Gender Theory and Politics in France","teaser":"This course explores thought, activism, and public policy in contemporary France pertaining to issues of gender and sexuality. Attention will be paid to intellectual and cultural differences between France and the US, as well as Franco-American exchanges in critical theory related to these domains (e.g. Foucault, Butler). Topics include Beauvoir's legacy and 1970's feminisms (Cixous, Irigaray, Wittig, Delphy); recent public policy debates (representative parity, marriage equality, surrogacy); sexual violence; feminism and multiculturalism (gender and national identity, anti-sexism/anti-racism, French secularism and the headscarf debate). Taught in English. WRIT","info":"Gretchen Schultz (Primary) / FREN 1420C S01 / CRN: 16244","_id":"skoZlOHRLNkOHebY"}
{"title":"Women in the Middle East, 7th-20th C.: Patriarchal Visions, Revolutionary Voices","teaser":"This course provides an historical approach to women’s lives, status, and perceptions. It focuses on women in the Middle East, from the seventh century emergence of Islam to the twentieth century revolutions and struggle for new identities. It examines the contested  roles of women in society and the ways women were culturally crafted. In particular, we will discuss the modes by which women’s lives were narrated (by themselves and others); women’s use of the “patriarchal bargain” to deal with the shift from so-called “traditional” to so-called “modern” culture; and the encounter between “Eastern” and “Western” societies. FYS WRIT","info":"Palmira Brummett (Primary) / HIST 0540F S01 / CRN: 14902","_id":"soX8I068e0YFyQp7"}
{"title":"Introduction to Linguistic Theory (CLPS 0030)","teaser":"Interested students must register for CLPS 0030 (CRN 15759).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"LING 0030 S01 / CRN: 16821","_id":"spstEAKwvtX2p8jz"}
{"title":"Introduction to Embedded and Real-Time Software","teaser":"Comprehensive introduction to the design and implementation of software for programmable embedded computing systems, those enclosed in devices such as cellular phones, game consoles, and car engines. Includes the overall embedded real-time software design and development processes, as well as aspects of embedded hardware and real-time, small-footprint operating systems. Major project component. Prerequisites: CSCI 0320 or 0360.","info":"Steven P. Reiss (Primary) / CSCI 1600 S01 / CRN: 16296","_id":"srIRttGGopdXNX8r"}
{"title":"Financial Institutions","teaser":"This course analyzes the role of financial institutions in allocating resources, managing risk, and exerting corporate governance over firms. After studying interest rate determination, the risk and term structure of interest rates, derivatives, and the role of central banks, it takes an international perspective in examining the emergence, operation, and regulation of financial institutions, especially banks. Prerequisites: ECON 1110 or 1130; and 1210. Enrollment limited to 100.","info":"ECON 1760 S01 / CRN: 15863","_id":"sv7UXwGalzHJmvxT"}
{"title":"Literary Journalism: Writing about Politics and Culture","teaser":"Students are introduced to procedures and techniques of cultural journalism through reading and discussing work of notable practitioners and writing their own reviews, profiles, and reportage. Enrollment limited to 12. Prerequisites: ENGL0900, ENGL0930, or any intermediate or advanced nonfiction course.  Preference will be given to English concentrators. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC.","info":"ENGL 1160G S01 / CRN: 15399","_id":"t3XyZHaMurHCxYXt"}
{"title":"The First Scientific Americans: Exploring Nature in Latin America, 1500-1800","teaser":"Who were the “first scientists” in the Americas?, what exactly do we mean by “science” in this context?, and what has amounted to “America” in the past? Focusing on present-day Latin America, this seminar analyses the links between the exploration of the New World and scientific discovery in the early modern period. We will explore issues of primacy (why have both empires and scientists cared about “arriving first”); the nature of science (what kind of knowledge has been considered “scientific” in different periods); and locality in knowledge production (was there something special about the New World in fostering scientific thinking).","info":"SCSO 1701C S01 / CRN: 16789","_id":"t8q0Zz5dRXG8dRmL"}
{"title":"Love, Revolution and Nostalgia in Modern Arabic Poetry","teaser":"This course aims to introduce students to the most prominent Arabic poets of the 20th and 21st century. Students will strengthen their language skills while reading and discussing texts by major modern poets from the Middle East and North Africa, including Nizar Qabbani, Darwish and Adonis. Through the works of these poets, they will explore a range of themes from politics and oppression, to love and eroticism, personal freedom and women’s liberation.\nConducted in Modern Standard Arabic; designed for students with advanced language skills. Prerequisite: Four years of Arabic, or by instructor permission.\n DPLL LILE","info":"Miled Faiza (Primary) / ARAB 1100 S01 / CRN: 16637","_id":"tCUjZJEfET26Bzqf"}
{"title":"American Political History","teaser":"This graduate seminar will explore a range of approaches to the study of America’s political past from the colonial period to the late twentieth century, including scholarship on electoral politics, the state, political culture, grassroots politics and resistance, the politics of gender and family, and American political development.  We will analyze how scholars have defined and redefined the field over time and throughout we will interrogate the question, “what is political history?”","info":"Tracy L. Steffes (Primary) / HIST 2970H S01 / CRN: 14949","_id":"tDqJgKsigN6Aug1q"}
{"title":"The First Scientific Americans: Exploring Nature in Latin America, 1500-1800 (SCSO 1701C)","teaser":"Interested students must register for SCSO 1701C (CRN 16789).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"HMAN 1971R S01 / CRN: 16840","_id":"tGZFjQJLm5n8FK3p"}
{"title":"Comedy","teaser":"No description available.","info":"Adele C. Scafuro (Primary) / LATN 1110E S01 / CRN: 15942","_id":"tQopnTOIxBE9283D"}
{"title":"Introduction to Econometrics","teaser":"Probability and statistical inference. Estimation and hypothesis testing. Simple and multiple regression analysis. Applications emphasized. Prerequisite: ECON 0110 or advanced placement, or ECON 1110 or 1130. Weekly one-hour computer conference required.","info":"Theresa J. Devine (Primary) / ECON 1620 L01 / CRN: 15158","_id":"tRak5xriUZYIAUYF"}
{"title":"Physical Chemistry: Quantum Chemistry","teaser":"An introduction to the quantum theory of chemical systems. Elements of quantum mechanics; electronic structure of atoms and molecules; study of molecular structure and behavior by spectroscopy; chemical bonding are explored. Prerequisites: CHEM 0330, MATH 0180 or equivalent, PHYS 0040 or 0060 or equivalent. Recommended but not required: MATH 0520 or equivalent.","info":"Richard Mark Stratt (Primary) / CHEM 1140 S01 / CRN: 14831","_id":"tVCUjibF0UiXBxYq"}
{"title":"Student Teaching: History and Social Studies","teaser":"S/NC.","info":"Eric H. Shed (Primary) / EDUC 1070B S01 / CRN: 14653","_id":"tXe8JVKtIcOFa595"}
{"title":"Transpacific Asian American Studies","teaser":"This is an advanced undergraduate seminar that is also open to American Studies and other graduate students for graduate credit.  It is designed to help us think about the Pacific as a historical space where the Asian American formation is constructed, as goods, people and ideas circulate across the Pacific.   We will explore ways which these historical circuits and exchanges have shaped questions of identity and belonging, taking China and the Americas as our principal points of connection.  We will read across a number of fields, including:  Asian Studies, American Studies, Asian American Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies.","info":"Robert George Lee (Primary) / ETHN 1900N S01 / CRN: 16904","_id":"tkUIMUsFlJEfUST5"}
{"title":"Cities and Urban Culture in China","teaser":"Treats the development of cities and urban culture in China from roughly the sixteenth century (the beginning of a great urban boom) to the present.  We will look at the physical layout of cities, city government and social structure, and urban economic life, often from a comparative perspective.  The course focuses, however, on the changing culture of city life, tracing the evolution of a vernacular popular culture from the late imperial period, through the rise of Shanghai commercial culture in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, to the diverse regional urban cultures of contemporary China.","info":"Cynthia J. Brokaw (Primary) / HIST 1961B S01 / CRN: 14907","_id":"tlh2yTFFVsrfNVEZ"}
{"title":"Death and Afterlife in the Biblical Tradition (RELS 0090J)","teaser":"Interested students must register for RELS 0090J (CRN 15874).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"JUDS 0050N S01 / CRN: 16346","_id":"tnC7rducCa6Jt1H6"}
{"title":"Urban Regimes in the American Republic","teaser":"A probing of topical issues in both their theoretical antecedents and their contemporary manifestations. Examines the intellectual debates and the scholarly treatments surrounding issues of power in the city, urban redevelopment policy, urban poverty, urban educational policy, and race in the city.  Enrollment limited to 20. LILE WRIT","info":"Marion E. Orr (Primary) / URBN 1870M S01 / CRN: 15848","_id":"toGhNpz2Od4BM06h"}
{"title":"Advanced Persian Language and Culture I","teaser":"For students who have completed PRSN 0400 or have acquired language skills above the intermediate level through contact with Persian in other ways. The main goal of this course is to improve speaking, listening, reading and writing skills and promote exposure to the culture. It will enable students to expand their knowledge of the language by studying samples of modern and classical Persian literature in order to advance toward mastery of contemporary literature. The course will motivate students to communicate both in written and spoken Persian by utilizing the adequate grammatical order and correct vocabulary. Prerequisite: PRSN 0400.","info":"Iraj Anvar (Primary) / PRSN 0500 S01 / CRN: 14866","_id":"tqGi2hOF0UL3FTEm"}
{"title":"Environmental Economics and Policy (ENVS 1350)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ENVS 1350 (CRN 15677).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"ECON 1350 S01 / CRN: 16348","_id":"tvjDrdMjv1iW3B7F"}
{"title":"Introduction to Geographic Information Systems for Environmental Applications","teaser":"Introduction to the concepts of geospatial analysis and digital mapping. The principles of spatial data structures, coordinate systems, database development and design, and techniques of spatial analysis are learned.  This is an applied course, primarily using ESRI-based geographic information system software.  Focal point of class is the completion of student-selected research project employing GIS methods. Enrollment limited to 10 in each section.  Permission by an application provided by the instructor (to be requested through email). S/NC.","info":"Lynn Carlson (Primary) / GEOL 1320 S01 / CRN: 15964","_id":"u5IMPY8puFEh7PCz"}
{"title":"Devils, Demons, and Do Gooders","teaser":"Who hasn't struggled with the problem of good and evil? Who hasn't wondered what lurks in the dark recesses of the soul? We will investigate how Milton, Mary Shelley, Melville, Poe, and Hawthorne, among others, grapple with these fundamental questions of judgment.","info":"James F. Egan (Primary) / ENGL 0100F S01 / CRN: 15458","_id":"u5ReFtzpkVvuX1fG"}
{"title":"Childhood and Culture in Japan","teaser":"This seminar offers students an interdisciplinary look at how children became central to social life in modern Japan. What set of historical and philosophical conditions made childhood newly visible in the late 19th century? In what ways has the relationship between the marketplace and childhood evolved over the past hundred years? How have class, gender, ethnicity and sexuality inflected the ways childhood has been experienced in Japan? Students will analyze different texts for and about children (early fairy tales, comic books, propaganda, animation) in relation to critical essays drawn from the disciplines of literature, history, anthropology, film, and social development. SOPH DPLL LILE WRIT","info":"Samuel E. Perry (Primary) / EAST 0500 S01 / CRN: 16283","_id":"u6pRorJPh8oSLoCq"}
{"title":"Women and Families in the Ancient Mediterranean","teaser":"What was life like for the women of the ancient Mediterranean?  What rights, roles, responsibilities, and expectations defined their lives?  Why is the examination of art and architecture such an important source for answering these questions?  This course will provide a comparative perspective exploring Greek, Etruscan, and Roman case studies.\n WRIT","info":"Anne Chen (Primary) / HIAA 1302 S01 / CRN: 16271","_id":"u9MPvWQiZD03y0qZ"}
{"title":"Modern and Contemporary Brazilian Poetry","teaser":"An intensive reading of selected Brazilian poets of the past eighty years, including Carlos Drummond de Andrade, João Cabral de Melo Neto, Mário Faustino, Paulo Leminski, Ana Cristina Cesar, the \"concretistas\", and Salgado Maranhão. Each student will be responsible for an oral presentation about an additional poet, to be chosen in consultation with the instructor. Conducted in Portuguese.","info":"Luiz Fernando Valente (Primary) / POBS 2600I S01 / CRN: 15544","_id":"uAPXRoPJNi85K3G6"}
{"title":"Transcending Transportation Impacts","teaser":"Students will be engaged in interdisciplinary analyses of the life-cycle costs, environmental impacts, technical developments, and policy innovations at the local and regional level. We will discuss technical modifications in vehicles, such as plug-in hybrids, as well as policy and planning on intermodal systems, recycle-a-bike programs, intelligent transportation systems, and other innovations. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students. Instructor permission required. FYS LILE WRIT","info":"Kurt Teichert (Primary) / ENVS 0070C S01 / CRN: 15670","_id":"uC54idG8FiEzGqyG"}
{"title":"The Politics and Government of Lusophone Countries","teaser":"Ranging from regional powers to small island states, from consolidated democracies to hybrid regimes, from good governance to weak states and petro-states, the Lusophone world represents a diverse and stimulating political context. This course provides a systematic analysis of Lusophone political institutions and behavior, while considering the wider implications of the Lusophone experience. It is organized thematically, with topics including democratization; state structures; political institutions and culture; clientelism; and party systems. Each topic focuses on a set of Lusophone countries. While all Lusophone countries are considered, the cases of Portugal, Brazil, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau and Angola are particularly emphasized.","info":"Varqa C Jalali (Primary) / POBS 1601G S01 / CRN: 16909","_id":"uCdY8VkPi2nxkQEQ"}
{"title":"History of Brazil","teaser":"This course charts the history of Brazil from Portuguese contact with the indigenous population in 1500 to the present. It examines the countrys political, economic, social, intellectual, and cultural development to understand the causes, interactions, and consequences of conflict, change, and continuity within Brazilian society.  WRIT","info":"James N. Green (Primary) / HIST 1310 S01 / CRN: 14931","_id":"uCwEE8JHLmDPPtql"}
{"title":"Law, Nationalism, and Colonialism","teaser":"This seminar explores the internationalism of the past century in terms of its relationship to separatist nationalism, anti-colonialism, and religious radicalism. It takes as its point of departure the dramatic political, cultural, and intellectual transformations that followed in the wake of World War I. A guiding hypothesis of the seminar is that internationalism cannot be understood apart from its complex relationship to \"identity\" broadly conceived – identity of local/transnational groups as well as the identity of internationalists themselves. Readings will be drawn from law/cultural studies/politics/postcolonial theory. Enrollment limited to 20 graduate students. Advanced juniors/seniors by permission only.","info":"Nathaniel A. Berman (Primary) / HMAN 2970F S01 / CRN: 16750","_id":"uF7mgOhMoDvCVpwK"}
{"title":"Intermediate Spanish II","teaser":"This course offers an exploration of the Spanish language and Hispanic cultures through a variety of thematic foci: the world of work, the arts, globalization and technology, leisure, and celebrations. It focuses on vocabulary building, the examination of some of the more difficult points of grammar, and moving students towards a more sophisticated level of comprehension and expression. Students work with readings, including literary texts; songs; film; and the visual arts. Prerequisite: HISP 0300 or placement: SAT II scores between 520 and 590 or Brown Placement Exam scores between 411 and 490. Students with an AP score of 3 or below must take the Brown Placement Exam. Students should check Placement and Course Description in the Undergraduate Program section of the Hispanic Studies Website. Enrollment limited to 18; 15 spaces are available for students during pre-registration. 3 spaces will be available at the start of the semester for incoming or re-admitted students who should attend the first class. Pre-enrolled students must attend the first four days of class to maintain their pre-registered status and notify the instructor in advance if they must miss any day before the 4th class when the composition of the course section is finalized.","info":"Victoria P. Smith (Primary) / HISP 0400 S01 / CRN: 15514","_id":"uLVksk621IfESBCt"}
{"title":"Voices Beneath the Veil","teaser":"Thirty plays, written by Afro-American playwrights and presented on the American stage between 1858 and the 1990s, are examined as cultural and historical documents of Afro-American realities. Supplementary readings from the humanities and social sciences provide critical framework for in-class discussions and student papers. Instructor permission required. WRIT DPLL","info":"Elmo Terry-Morgan (Primary) / AFRI 1110 S01 / CRN: 16226","_id":"uPPCmOimrf2k2kyN"}
{"title":"Introduction to Composition","teaser":"Composition students begin by using technical resources developed in their previous theoretical studies. Analysis and discussion of contemporary music provides examples of alternatives to traditional compositional strategies, which students integrate into later assignments. A study of contemporary notational practices and computer-based manuscripting and sequencing is also included. Prerequisite: MUSC 0560 or permission of the instructor.  Enrollment limited to 20 students.","info":"MUSC 1100 S01 / CRN: 16013","_id":"uSTiwqdpi1C4uNNc"}
{"title":"Laboratory in Psycholinguistics","teaser":"An advanced course in methodological approaches to the study of psycholinguistics. Processes (e.g. with adult lexical access, sentence processing, corpus linguistics, etc.) Recommended prerequisites: CLPS 0800 (COGS 0450) and CLPS 0900 (COGS/PSYC 0090), or equivalent.","info":"Philip Hofmeister (Primary) / CLPS 1890 S01 / CRN: 16016","_id":"uULFXLoEtWCazw5l"}
{"title":"Methods of Mathematical Physics","teaser":"This course is designed for sophomores in physical sciences, especially those intending to take sophomore or higher level Physics courses.  Topics include linear algebra (including linear vector spaces), Fourier analysis, ordinary and partial differential equations, complex analysis (including contour integration).  Pre-requisites: PHYS 0060 or 0160, MATH 0180, 0200 or 0350, or consent of the instructor.","info":"PHYS 0720 S01 / CRN: 15242","_id":"uZMwOmejlsLGcJcd"}
{"title":"Queer Relations: Aesthetics and Sexuality","teaser":"A study of the relationship between aesthetic thought and sexuality in a variety of literary and cinematic works. We will supplement our readings with ventures into queer theory, emphasizing how art is related to identity, community, race, gender, and ethics. Authors include Wilde, Pater, James, Winterson, Cole, Guibert, Foucault, Bersani, Edelman. Films by Julien and Jarman. DPLL","info":"Jacques Khalip (Primary) / ENGL 1900R S01 / CRN: 15628","_id":"ubGLrzbDonYK90Lf"}
{"title":"History of the Ancient Egyptian Language","teaser":"Diachronic survey of ancient Egyptian from Old Egyptian through Coptic, covering changes in phonology and grammar and analyzing the processes through which these changes took place. Course requirements are short research papers to be presented in class and a final examination. Previous course work in at least one stage of the Egyptian language required; knowledge of Late Egyptian, Demotic (grammar) or Coptic preferable. Prerequisites: EGYT 1310 and EGYT 1320, plus either EGYT 2210, EGYT 2410 or EGYT 2610.","info":"James P. Allen (Primary) / EGYT 2310 S01 / CRN: 16751","_id":"ucChr03SBXCQANwe"}
{"title":"Baroque and Classic Music","teaser":"A history of music in European society from Monteverdi's opera Orfeo to Beethoven's Ninth, studied through texts, scores, CDs, DVDs, and YouTube.  We'll spend two-thirds of our time on five composers: Bach, Handel, Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven.  Prerequisite: MUSC0550  or equivalent.","info":"David Josephson (Primary) / MUSC 0920 S01 / CRN: 16014","_id":"uiwwpErjpv3vEQFQ"}
{"title":"Shakespeare in Perspective","teaser":"We study Shakespeare together with selections from other writers or thinkers, including those who have written about Shakespeare (e.g. Nietzsche, Emerson, Coleridge), and those who can illuminate interpretive problems in Shakespeare (e.g. Plato, Melville).","info":"Peter K. Saval (Primary) / COLT 1410U S01 / CRN: 15882","_id":"ujIzUegVOTEd3eJg"}
{"title":"Reading Narrative Theory (ENGL 1950G)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ENGL 1950G (CRN 15504).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"MCM 1504Q S01 / CRN: 16332","_id":"ujQNKdEV6OrgHbTj"}
{"title":"Advanced Beginning Chinese","teaser":"A year-long intensive course designed for students with some prior knowledge of Chinese. Designed to enhance listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills. Five classroom meetings weekly. Placement interview required. This is the first half of a year-long course whose first semester grade is normally a temporary one. Neither semester may be elected independently without special written permission. The final grade submitted at the end of the course work in CHIN 0250 covers the entire year and is recorded as the final grade for both semesters.","info":"Jia-Lin Huang Hsieh (Primary) / CHIN 0150 S01 / CRN: 16626","_id":"ulx2LqDurgUASzi9"}
{"title":"Climate and Climate Change","teaser":"This course is designed to provide students with an understanding of the climate system on Earth, changes in Earth's climate over time, and interactions between climate change and human society. Topics will include: global energy balance; the structure, composition and role of the atmosphere and oceans; the influence of the global carbon cycle on climate; the social, economic and political drivers of human perturbations to the carbon cycle; and societal vulnerability, resilience and adaptive capacity in the face of environmental changes. No prerequisites; course open to all levels.","info":"Meredith K. Hastings (Primary) / GEOL 0030 S01 / CRN: 15956","_id":"umLVTSf2XPrRY4Y8"}
{"title":"Painting I","teaser":"Painting for a variety of interests and aptitudes - basic instruction in media and painting procedure, emphasis on development of the image as a visual statement. Will build stretchers, cover basic color principles, and painting tehcniques. Slides, related books, articles are discussed. Individual criticism is given; participation in group discussions is required.  Pre-req: VISA 0100 or 0110. Restricted to 14 VISA Concentrators, others by permission of the instructor. Students not admitted during pre-registration should attend the first class. Not all restrictions apply to students registering for the Summer term through the Office of Continuing Education.","info":"Leigh Tarentino (Primary) / VISA 1310 S01 / CRN: 16095","_id":"uoVLG3h9TtkMcCcA"}
{"title":"Real Function Theory (MATH 2210)","teaser":"Interested students must register for MATH 2210 (CRN 15389).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"APMA 2110 S01 / CRN: 16369","_id":"uqdP3nh11Q7411qO"}
{"title":"American Higher Education in Historical Context","teaser":"A study of 350 years of American higher education. The first part traces the growth and development of American higher education from premodern college to the modern research university. The second part examines issues facing higher education today and places them in historical context. Particular attention is given to: the evolution of curriculum; professionalization; student life; and the often competing priorities of teaching, research and service. WRIT","info":"Luther Spoehr (Primary) / EDUC 1730 S01 / CRN: 14626","_id":"usDMov98hqWQT3pj"}
{"title":"Current Topics in Environmental Health","teaser":"This course is designed to introduce students to the field of environmental health, and demonstrate how environmental health is integrated into various aspects of our lives, both directly and indirectly.  Topics to be covered include: toxic metals, vector-borne disease, food safety, water quality, radiation, pesticides, air quality, hazardous waste, risk assessment, and the role of the community in environmental health.  Several topics will be presented by guest speakers so that students can learn from the expertise of professionals in the field. Enrollment limited to 40.","info":"Karl T. Kelsey (Primary) / PHP 1700 S01 / CRN: 16683","_id":"usLX1iB7zeo4qm6P"}
{"title":"Basic Spanish","teaser":"This fast-paced beginning course provides a solid foundation in the development of communicative skills in Spanish (speaking, listening comprehension, reading and writing) as well as some insight on the cultures of the Spanish-speaking world. Individual work outside of class prepares students for in-class activities focused on authentic communication. Placement: students who have never taken Spanish before, or have scored below 390 in SAT II, or below 240 in the Brown Placement Exam. Students who have taken Spanish before and those with an AP score of 3 or below must take the Brown Placement Exam. Students should check Placement and Course Description in the Undergraduate Program section of the Hispanic Studies Website. Enrollment limited to 18; 15 spaces are available for students during pre-registration. 3 spaces will be available at the start of the semester for incoming or re-admitted students who should attend the first class. Pre-enrolled students must attend the first four days of class to maintain their pre-registered status and notify the instructor in advance if they must miss any day before the 4th class when the composition of the course section is finalized.","info":"Silvia Sobral (Primary) / HISP 0100 S01 / CRN: 15485","_id":"uvMh7o44MIeA94Tk"}
{"title":"Intermediate Korean","teaser":"An intermediate course in Korean designed to further communicative competence in spoken Korean and to provide additional reading practice in stylistically higher level materials that are progressively integrated into the given dialogues. Discussions on various aspects of Korean culture and society. Four classroom hours per week. Prerequisite: KREA 0200 or instructor permission.","info":"Hyunju Ha (Primary) / KREA 0300 S01 / CRN: 14968","_id":"uwjtYREncgR474rN"}
{"title":"Comparative Education","teaser":"National systems of formal education, over the past two centuries, have proliferated massively. International organizations, governmental and nongovernmental, have long promoted the universal provision of mass education as central goals in the modern way of life. At the same time, the way children are raised, and the kinds of adults they become, varies considerably. Comparative education seeks to explore this interplay of variety and uniformity. Enrollment limited to 40.","info":"EDUC 1030 S01 / CRN: 16807","_id":"v1ylcAtfycFEpIz3"}
{"title":"Advanced Musicianship I","teaser":"Training in advanced musicianship skills relevant to Western art music from the sixteenth Century to the present, including sight singing, ear training, score reading, keyboard harmony, improvisation, and musical transcription. Prerequisite: MUSC 0560 with a grade of B, or permission of the instructor.","info":"Arlene M. Cole (Primary) / MUSC 1010 S01 / CRN: 15908","_id":"v64iMM187Yu4Y6Wx"}
{"title":"Advanced Placement Calculus","teaser":"Begins with a review of fundamentals of calculus and includes infinite series, power series, paths, and differential equations of first and second order. Placement in this course is determined by the department on the basis of high school AP examination scores or the results of tests given by the department during orientation week. May not be taken in addition to MATH 0100.","info":"MATH 0170 S01 / CRN: 15348","_id":"vAvyz73h0pn9Fr5j"}
{"title":"Computational Methods in Structural Mechanics","teaser":"Fundamentals of the finite element method of structural analysis. Nodal points, element design, and consistent formulation for assumed functions. Principle of virtual work, formulation of element stiffness and master stiffness matrices. Relation to variational and minimum principles. Linear elastic analysis for static problems; direct and iterative procedures. Nonlinear static analysis with piecewise linearization; elastic-plastic behavior, large geometry changes. Time dependent behavior.","info":"Allan Francis Bower (Primary) / ENGN 2340 S01 / CRN: 16835","_id":"vCJ5gwQFZg77OeaO"}
{"title":"History Honors Workshop for Thesis Writers, Part II","teaser":"This is the second half of a year-long course, upon completion the grade will revert to HIST 1993. Prerequisite: HIST 1993. WRIT","info":"Ethan Pollock (Primary) / HIST 1994 S01 / CRN: 15058","_id":"vD3585HGbFHVz15T"}
{"title":"Topics in Signal Transduction","teaser":"Signal transduction is one of the most rapidly developing fields in biomedical sciences. Defects in signaling pathways can be responsible for diseases such as cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disorders and psychoses. This course offers students an overview of the molecular pathways that allow cells to receive and process signals from their external environment, with an emphasis on the emerging state-of-the-art techniques used in their study. Expected background: BIOL 0200, 0280, 0470, or 0500. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors and seniors. Instructor permission required.","info":"Elena Oancea (Primary) / BIOL 1110 S01 / CRN: 14777","_id":"vJLS6AeQY12aaER1"}
{"title":"Pembroke Research Seminar in Feminist Theory: Fatigue","teaser":"An advanced feminist research seminar in feminist theory and gender studies. The seminar's focus for 2015-16 is \"Fatigue.\" Presentations made by Brown faculty, Pembroke Center fellows, visiting scholars, and students. Offered in conjunction with the Pembroke Seminar. Enrollment limited to 8.","info":"Joan K. Copjec (Primary) / GNSS 2010I S01 / CRN: 15532","_id":"vNkFqnG0qFwxX0rn"}
{"title":"Introduction to Poetry","teaser":"A workshop for first year students, introducing them to the art of writing poetry. This course is reading and writing intensive. Enrollment limited to 17. S/NC required.  FYS  WRIT\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"LITR 0100B S01 / CRN: 15663","_id":"vQIh0Od9bFVAzi7N"}
{"title":"Anthropology of Addictions and Recovery","teaser":"The purpose of this course is to consider the uses and misuses alcohol, tobacco and drugs, and approaches to recovery from addictions. We will read some of the major cross cultural, ethnographic, linguistic, and social-political works on addictions. Students will have the opportunity to conduct their own anthropological interviews regarding substance misuse and recovery as well as observe a local 12 step recovery meeting. Enrollment limited to 20. LILE WRIT","info":"Irene Glasser (Primary) / ANTH 1300 S01 / CRN: 16199","_id":"vRwBWYZUZ6mYAN3d"}
{"title":"Principles of Immunology","teaser":"Introduction to experimental and theoretical foundations of immunology. Focuses on concepts, landmark experiments and recent advances. Topics include innate and adaptive immunity; structure/function of antibody molecules and T cell receptors; regulation of immune responses through cellular interactions. Applications of concepts to medically significant issues (vaccines, transplantation, inflammation, autoimmunity, cancer, HIV/AIDS) are discussed. Interpretative analysis of experimental data is emphasized. Expected background: BIOL 0200 or equivalent placement credit.","info":"Richard D. Bungiro (Primary) / BIOL 0530 S01 / CRN: 14690","_id":"vTL61qBGMjomWCB8"}
{"title":"Quantitative Methods for Behavioral and Social Sciences Interevention Research","teaser":"This course provides broad coverage of the quantitative methods used in behavioral intervention research ranging from descriptive data analysis to longitudinal methods.  Students will learn to conduct, interpret, and write up a range of statistical procedures including basic psychometrics, t-tests and ANOVAs, correlations, and multiple regression.  Students also will be introduced to more advanced techniques used for longitudinal data analysis in order to understand their common uses in behavioral intervention research. The course provides students in the Master's program in Behavioral and Social Sciences Intervention the requisite skills to conduct analyses of  behavioral data as part of their Master's Thesis. Enrollment limited to 15 graduate students in the BSSI Master's program and the MPH program.","info":"Christopher W. Kahler (Primary) / PHP 2390 S01 / CRN: 15895","_id":"vVJfDDQSEMQsYotV"}
{"title":"Land Use and Built Environment: An Entrepreneurial View","teaser":"Through the use of readings, group discussions, students presentations and guest lectures, students examine and challenge the analytical and structural frameworks which underlie and support public and private land and use the urban and suburban built environments. Students build an understanding and theory of how social, political, governmental and economic forces interact with society's present and future physical space needs.","info":"Josef Mittlemann (Primary) / ENGN 1930S S01 / CRN: 16460","_id":"vYc1NyKk9UKxsPNo"}
{"title":"The Art of Catastrophe: Crisis and Collapse in the American Literary Landscape","teaser":"How have contemporary thinkers grappled with great crises -- environmental, economic, spiritual, terroristic -- in the 20th century? From catastrophic events like 9/11 to volatile conflicts involving race and gender, this course assesses contemporary literary and cinematic representations of crisis by probing their political and aesthetic significance. Authors may include: West, Ward, DeLillo, Hamid, Ozeki; Films include Soylent Green, Dawn of the Dead, The Reluctant Fundamentalist. Enrollment limited to 17.\n WRIT","info":"Claire Gullander-Drolet (Primary) / ENGL 0200C S01 / CRN: 15601","_id":"vbQhVJm86oiI1giS"}
{"title":"Neural Dynamics","teaser":"Neurons and systems of neurons vary in their activity patterns on millisecond to second time scales, commonly referred to as \"neural dynamics.\" This course addresses mechanisms underlying this flexibility and its potential meaning for information processing in the brain.  The course integrates biophysical, single neuron and human studies.  Examples topics include the impact of attention on neural firing rates, oscillations and sensory representation in neocortex, and the origins and potential meaning of the dynamics during sleep.  Students will be introduced to computational modeling as a method to gain insight into dynamics, but no prior mathematics or programming background is required.","info":"Christopher I. Moore (Primary) / NEUR 1440 S01 / CRN: 15898","_id":"vkjkvm8HjA5cZXsm"}
{"title":"Developmental Biology","teaser":"Covers the molecular and cellular events of development from fertilized egg to adult. Genetic basis of body form, cell fate specification and differentiation, processes controlling morphogenesis, growth, stem cells and regeneration will be examined. Differential gene regulation, intercellular signaling and their evolutionary conservation will be central to discussion of mechanisms governing developmental processes. Additional topics: developmental plasticity, impact of epigenetic and environmental factors, and basis of disease gleaned from developmental biology research. Live embryos will complement and reinforce concepts covered in class. Enrollment limited to 36. Expected: BIOL 0200 (or equivalent), and one course in genetics, cell biology or embryology.","info":"Kristi A. Wharton (Primary) / BIOL 1310 L01 / CRN: 14722","_id":"vlxFJ9a5xCzNBsVi"}
{"title":"Bleeding Heart Libertarianism","teaser":"What is libertarianism? In what sense can libertarians claim to combine the best of the “right” with the best of the “left?” Why do libertarians emphasize private property? Why are they skeptical of political agency? Are libertarians anti-democratic? Can they care about social justice? How do libertarians approach problems such as racism, sexism, militarism, state surveillance, global inequality, and environmental sustainability? This course will explore such questions, as illuminated by a variety of texts in the libertarian tradition, classical and contemporary. FYS","info":"John O. Tomasi (Primary) / POLS 0820W S01 / CRN: 15510","_id":"vm8mQdHfa6pQ9E7u"}
{"title":"Intensive Basic Spanish","teaser":"A highly-intensive, two-semester sequence in one semester that carries 10 contact hours per week. Primarily for students with knowledge of Spanish, who have scored below 450 in SATII or below 340 in Brown Placement Exam. Students with little or no preparation in Spanish should consult with the Course Supervisor. Focused on acquisition of communicative skills (speaking, listening comprehension, reading and writing), and development of cultural awareness. With successful completion of the course students will be able to understand simple texts, carry on short spontaneous conversations involving everyday topics (such as modern daily life, health, art and culture, nature and the environment, and relationships) and write simple texts with good command of grammar and sentence structure. Ideal for students interested in fast-tracking their language learning to meet study abroad requirements. Double credit. Instructor permission required. Enrollment limited to 18: 15 spaces are available for students during pre-registration. 3 spaces will be available at the start of the semester for incoming or re-admitted students who should attend the first class. Pre-enrolled students must attend the first four days of class to maintain their pre-registered status and notify the instructor in advance if they must miss any day before the 4th class when the composition of the course section is finalized.","info":"Nidia A. Schuhmacher (Primary) / HISP 0110 S01 / CRN: 15489","_id":"vnVllr5d787Wmu0d"}
{"title":"Senior Seminar in Science and Society","teaser":"This is an advanced seminar that uses a Problem Based Learning style pedagogy to explore real-world problems in STS. To solve assigned problems students will want to explore critical scholarship in areas such as laboratory studies, feminist science and technology studies, the rhetoric and discourse of science and technology, expertise and the public understanding of science.  Course is intended for Science and Society senior concentrators, but is open to others with appropriate background.  Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Sherine F. Hamdy (Primary) / SCSO 1900 S01 / CRN: 16314","_id":"voSZc7aEgYIdF65z"}
{"title":"Techniques and Analyses using DNA-Based Biotechnology","teaser":"Students will study and practice a range of methods used in molecular biology while examining the ways in which those tools are used in research and in the development of medical treatments. This experience, combined with the reading and discussion of selected papers from the primary literature, fosters development of a skill set critically important for the modern day biology student. Expected background: high school Biology course. Enrollment limited to 10 first year students. Instructor permission required. Half-credit course. S/NC. FYS","info":"Jody Hall (Primary) / BIOL 0150A S01 / CRN: 14700","_id":"vwsB55Uil6ZLmLvl"}
{"title":"Advanced Mechanics of Solids","teaser":"Continuum mechanics of solids and its application to the mechanical response of machine and structural elements. Elasticity, plasticity, and failure criteria. Elastic stress analysis in torsion, plane stress and plane strain, stress concentrations. Fracture mechanics, principle of virtual work, and variational theorems. Finite-element method of numerical stress analysis. Theorems of plastic limit analysis. Prerequisite: ENGN 0310.","info":"David L. Henann (Primary) / ENGN 1750 S01 / CRN: 16455","_id":"vyjfe1feBaPKr0fu"}
{"title":"Roman Topography","teaser":"That actions occur in place is obvious, but how does place define action, and how do actions define place?  How does the accretion of meanings assigned to a place through repeated use provide significance to the current actions, affect reinterpretations of past events, and effect future uses? Topography explores not only the history of monuments but also the constellation of meanings shaped by the interaction of monuments with each other in the cultural landscape.  Topographical relationships serve as an imprint of a particular community's social, political, economic, and religious behavior within and across space and time. Ancient Roman case studies.","info":"Lisa M. Mignone (Primary) / CLAS 2010B S01 / CRN: 16810","_id":"w0LkQTu8jwe84cui"}
{"title":"Introduction to the History of Art: Modern Photography","teaser":"This class will survey the history of photography as an art form and means of visual communication in the modern era.  The photograph will be considered from both esthetic and social perspectives; photography's rise as a medium of personal expression will be examined, as will technology's role in the creation of new regimes of spectatorship, and the mass dissemination of visual information.  The class follows the rise of photography's acceptance as an art form in the twentieth century, and culminates with its prominence within the phenomenon of postmodernism.   Prior coursework in modern history or art history is helpful. Enrollment limited 80.","info":"Douglas R. Nickel (Primary) / HIAA 0075 S02 / CRN: 16570","_id":"w3Q1OLAVHYbw63Ox"}
{"title":"Causal Analysis","teaser":"\"Does premarital cohabitation protect marriage?\" \"Does reducing class size improve elementary school education?\" \"Is there racial discrimination in the market for home loans?\" We often use associations to claim causal effects.  This course provide a broad introduction to casual analysis.  We will address casual inference form observational and quasi-experimental research designs.  Topics include instrumental variables estimation, difference-in-difference models, regression discontinuity, matching, propensity scores, heterogeneous treatment effects, and fixed effects models.  The prerequisite of this course is SOC 2020 or equivalent.","info":"SOC 2960Y S01 / CRN: 16757","_id":"w5tnJuZNsa7Ri75b"}
{"title":"Transnational Lives: Anthropology of Migration and Mobilities","teaser":"In an era characterized by globalization, by the increasing and rapid flows of ideologies, information, money, goods, and people across national borders, how do individuals, families, and communities grapple with the new forms of existence brought forth by migration? This course will go beyond macro-economic explanations of why migration happens to explore what migration does: the effects of mobility on a range of practices that include parenting, health, gender roles, marriage, politics, and anthropological research itself. We will consider three overlapping issues: the everyday practices of transnational living in a variety of cross-cultural settings; the theory and methodology anthropologists use to better understand local experiences of migration; and the ways in which migration has been effectively politicized. Enrollment limited to 20 first year students.  FYS  LILE  WRIT","info":"Jessaca B. Leinaweaver (Primary) / ANTH 0066P S01 / CRN: 16188","_id":"w9BOXaY2a50UiSBd"}
{"title":"Physiological Pharmacology","teaser":"Covers the physiology of human disease (e.g., Heart failure and arrhythmia; cancer signaling pathways with a focus on breast cancer; neurological disorders such as schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease) and discusses the pharmacology of the drugs used to treat disease.  A group of the most commonly prescribed drugs is discussed in terms of their fundamental modes of action and clinical importance.  Expected:  BIOL 0800.","info":"John Marshall (Primary) / BIOL 1260 S01 / CRN: 14783","_id":"wHDPsUYWTfmsPcHU"}
{"title":"Basic Haitian Creole","teaser":"Fast-paced course for beginners.  Course stresses acquisition of skills in speaking and listening comprehension; writing included to a lesser degree.  Strong emphasis on cultural as well as linguistic competency.  Enrollment limited to 18.  If the course is full, please sign the wait list in room 215, 111 Thayer Street.","info":"Patrick Sylvain (Primary) / CROL 0100 S01 / CRN: 14861","_id":"wJMIVlTeQRz2cwN8"}
{"title":"Equilibrium, Rate, and Structure","teaser":"Explores the electronic structure of atoms and molecules, thermodynamics, solution equilibrium, electrochemistry, chemical kinetics, and reaction mechanisms. Course includes lecture and laboratory sections. Laboratory cannot be taken without the lecture. Students who previously passed 0330 lab may be excused from repeating the lab portion of the course. Required background: CHEM 0100 or AP Chemistry 4 or CHEM Placement Test 8 or IBC Chemistry.","info":"Li-Qiong Wang (Primary) / CHEM 0330 C01 / CRN: 15702","_id":"wLvpAcEw1KRH53qq"}
{"title":"From the Earth:  Landscape, Ethnicity and the Question of Autochthony in Literature","teaser":"What does it mean to spring from the soil, to be indigenous, autochthonous? How do we understand and represent the relationship between a specific environment and those inhabiting it?  As some kind of mystical bond?  As a function of Darwinian adaptation?  Does it entitle us to ownership?  Can we possess land?  Can land possess us?  This course will explore questions such as these through readings from Herodotus, Marco Polo, Ibn Fadlan, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu and others.","info":"Meera Sushila Viswanathan (Primary) / COLT 0812C S01 / CRN: 15881","_id":"wOseKVhUbZRpGOLm"}
{"title":"Egyptomania: Mystery of the Sphinx and Other Secrets of Ancient Egypt","teaser":"The pyramids, tombs, and mummies discovered during the first excavations in Egypt created a colorful but highly romanticized image of this Land of the Pharaohs. More recent archaeological research has unearthed new details about the daily lives of the workers who built those pyramids, or Egypt’s cultural and economic connections throughout the Mediterranean. This course will explore how both early and recent archaeology has enriched our perception of the Gift of the Nile, while still leaving more mysteries yet to solve. FYS WRIT","info":"Miriam Muller (Primary) / ARCH 0152 S01 / CRN: 16891","_id":"wTxoIDSP71KsRBnv"}
{"title":"Environmental Archaeology","teaser":"How are our lives shaped by the environment around us? And, as scientists argue about whether or not we've entered a new age called \"The Anthropocene\", how great an impact have humans really made on the environment, from prehistory right up until today? This course will consider the complexities of human-environment interactions using a diachronic and comparative perspective only possible through an archaeological lens. It will explore the ecological relationships between people, animals, and plants in the past and discuss the implications of these dynamic relationships an increasingly globalized world.  Enrollment limited to 50.","info":"Brett S. Kaufman (Primary) / ARCH 1870 S01 / CRN: 16729","_id":"wUhTVvDSg2U3TS2G"}
{"title":"Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning","teaser":"This course covers fundamental topics in pattern recognition and machine learning.  We will consider applications in computer vision, signal processing, speech recognition and information retrieval.  Topics include: decision theory, parametric and non-parametric learning, dimensionality reduction, graphical models, exact and approximate inference, semi-supervised learning, generalization bounds and support vector machines.  Prerequisites: basic probability, linear algebra, calculus and some programming experience.","info":"ENGN 2520 S01 / CRN: 16588","_id":"wVNjJ0C08GzKkTsJ"}
{"title":"Drawing I","teaser":"Drawing from nature, still life, the model, and the imagination in a variety of media. A continuing series of outside assignments emphasized. Visits to galleries and museums and pertinent exhibitions may be undertaken. The portfolio of the individual student will be the basis of evaluation. Great emphasis is put on classroom participation.  Pre-requisite: VISA 0100 or  0110. This course restricted to 20 students.  18 seats will be available during pre-registration.  Students who are not admitted during pre-registration should attend the first meeting.","info":"Hilary L. Doyle (Primary) / VISA 1110 S01 / CRN: 16091","_id":"wWl9QEA5CMXyOTL4"}
{"title":"Stage Lighting","teaser":"This course is an introduction to stage lighting.  Enrollment limited to 20.","info":"Timothy C. Hett (Primary) / TAPS 0260 S01 / CRN: 16134","_id":"wYryibM7MI9jEnqI"}
{"title":"Critical Reading and Writing I: The Academic Essay","teaser":"An introduction to university-level writing. Students produce and revise multiple drafts of essays, practice essential skills of paragraph organization, and develop techniques of critical analysis and research. Readings from a wide range of texts in literature, the media, and academic disciplines. Assignments move from personal response papers to formal academic essays. Enrollment limited to 17. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC.\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Lawrence K. Stanley (Primary) / ENGL 0900 S01 / CRN: 15274","_id":"wbhs6BbiqOhWZzPu"}
{"title":"Modern Enchantments: Science, Religion, and Magic in Modernizinig America","teaser":"Scholars have long equated modernity with “disenchantment,” the subordination of magic and mysticism to the forces of science and secularization. Recent scholarship, however, has challenged this view, suggesting that the persistence of magical worldviews has been integral to the development of modernity itself. In this course, we will explore the various interactions, both conflicting and complementary, between science, religion, and magic in the nineteenth- and early twentieth-century United States. Topics will include spiritualism, hypnosis, phrenology, optical illusions, alternative medicines, stage magic, and the early psychology of religion. Throughout, we will interrogate the concept of modernity and the narrative of disenchantment.","info":"Elizabeth E Searcy (Primary) / HIST 1979X S01 / CRN: 16850","_id":"wdjmw2miHoWPfjEI"}
{"title":"Cryptography","teaser":"The main focus is on public key cryptography. Topics include symmetric ciphers, public key ciphers, complexity, digital signatures, applications and protocols. MATH 1530 is not required for this course. What is needed from abstract algebra and elementary number theory will be covered. Prerequisite: MATH 0520 or MATH 0540.","info":"Nathan K. Pflueger (Primary) / MATH 1580 S01 / CRN: 15383","_id":"wfP4JqDpVNyn00LO"}
{"title":"Intensive Portuguese","teaser":"A highly intensive course for students with little or no preparation in the language. Stresses the fundamental language skills of understanding, speaking, reading, and writing. Aspects of Portuguese and Brazilian culture are also presented. Uses a situational/natural approach that emphasizes communication in Portuguese from the very first class. A two-semester sequence in one semester with ten contact hours each week. Carries double credit and covers the equivalent of two semesters.  This course should be chosen, in the fall, by students beginning the study of Portuguese as sophomores who would like to participate in the Brown-in-Brazil Program as juniors. Offered every semester.","info":"Patricia I. Sobral (Primary) / POBS 0110 S02 / CRN: 15546","_id":"wfw2Sv60SFOU2lNK"}
{"title":"Performance Theory and World Theatre History: Paleolithic to Medieval","teaser":"This course offers an introduction to basic texts performance theory and then directs the methodological questions derived from those texts to the study of performance practices in context, exploring paleolithic, ancient, and medieval performance histories in global, cross-cultural perspective. WRIT","info":"Rebecca Schneider (Primary) / TAPS 1230 S01 / CRN: 16136","_id":"wgBpjpy8fDdqeB59"}
{"title":"Measuring and Improving the Quality of Health Care","teaser":"The quality of health care in the United States is in urgent need of improvement. This course will focus on the science of measuring and improving the quality of health care. Topics will include quality assessment, patient safety, medical errors, public reporting, financial incentives, organizational change, and health care disparities. Students will engage in a team-based quality improvement project. Open to graduate and medical students only.","info":"Amal N. Trivedi (Primary) / PHP 2450 S01 / CRN: 16860","_id":"wkPG4ibjIbUUyPeW"}
{"title":"Electricity and Magnetism","teaser":"Fundamental laws of electricity and magnetism and their role in engineering applications. Concepts of charge, current, potential, electric field, magnetic field. Resistance, capacitance, and inductance. Electric and magnetic properties of materials. Electromagnetic wave propagation. Lectures, recitation, and laboratory. Prerequisites: ENGN 0030 or PHYS 0070; ENGN 0040 or PHYS 0160 (previously 0080); MATH 0180 or 0200; and APMA 0330 or 0350 (may be taken concurrently).","info":"Alexander Zaslavsky (Primary) / ENGN 0510 C01 / CRN: 16433","_id":"wpBfhSq1k1sfX7Fg"}
{"title":"Twentieth-Century German Culture","teaser":"A broad exploration of twentieth-century German culture using many kinds of written and visual texts (e.g. literature, journalism, film, art). While continuing to work on all four language skills (speaking, listening, reading, writing) students will gain more intensive knowledge about German culture, society, and history. In German. Recommended prerequisite: GRMN 0400. WRIT","info":"Kristina C. Mendicino (Primary) / GRMN 0500F S01 / CRN: 15813","_id":"wqUWpqmD7znsAqgs"}
{"title":"Social Problems","teaser":"The discipline of sociology has frequently been characterized as the \"science of industrial society.\"  While the discipline's founding father's - Karl Marx, Max Weber, and Emile Durkheim,-addressed the origins and consequences of industrial growth in nineteenth century Europe, their descendents have examined -and continue to examine- a wide array of social problems in a host of different historical and geographic contexts,e.g., the definition and diffusion of \"terrorism,\" and the origins and consequences of ethnic and gender discrimination the world over.","info":"Andrew M. Schrank (Primary) / SOC 0010 S01 / CRN: 15429","_id":"wzvYXNJow98VY3io"}
{"title":"New Genre: Physical Computing","teaser":"This semester will focus on the theme of Physical Computing. This studio course is an intensive introduction to electronic devices for use in artmaking and includes hands-on experience working with sensors, motors, switches, gears, lights, simple circuits, microprocessors and hardware-store devices to create kinetic and interactive works of art. Demonstrations, lectures and critical discussion of work will be given to develop concepts and technical skills.  Prerequisite: VISA 0120.This course restricted to 15 students.  10 seats will be available during pre-registration.  Students who are not admitted during pre-registration should attend the first meeting.  May be repeated once for credit.","info":"Edward P. Osborn (Primary) / VISA 1720 S01 / CRN: 16101","_id":"x3BOD0IOxZ4klsRY"}
{"title":"Inequality, Sustainability, and Mobility in a Car-Clogged World","teaser":"The global car population is predicted to reach two billion by the year 2020. The social, political, health, and environmental consequences are immense.  These, as well as the cultural and political economic explanations for the car population explosion, will be explored in this class, as will alternative futures for transit.","info":"Catherine A. Lutz (Primary) / ANTH 0450 S01 / CRN: 16191","_id":"x6cs9Fh7Bn2x6OHT"}
{"title":"Operations Research: Deterministic Models","teaser":"An introduction to the basic mathematical ideas and computational methods of optimizing allocation of effort or resources, with or without constraints. Linear programming, network models, dynamic programming, and integer programming.","info":"Boris L. Rozovsky (Primary) / APMA 1210 S01 / CRN: 15799","_id":"xDkv5QaDWbtF8X97"}
{"title":"Experiments in Dance, Movement, and Performance","teaser":"This course introduces students to the histories and methodologies; meanings and functions of experimental choreography in specific artistic, social, and political contexts. We examine the ways in which choreographers and dancers have experimented with the traditions and forms of dance, by mapping a series of interdisciplinary gestures in relation to creative and critical fields. The course builds on a series of composition exercises and creative assignments to culminate with the making and showing of a dance performance. No experience of dance is required, but an interest in thinking and experimenting with the roles of dance across art, society, and academia.","info":"Noemie Solomon (Primary) / TAPS 1325 S01 / CRN: 16146","_id":"xE2aitJ953bWVeBG"}
{"title":"Psychology of Hearing","teaser":"How do we hear the world around us?  In this course, we will examine basic phenomena underlying human auditory perception, focusing on topics such as masking, pitch perception, sound localization, and auditory scene analysis.  We will discuss theories of hearing, experimental techniques to evaluate hearing, and the impact of age-related declines in hearing on human psychology. Open to juniors and seniors. Prerequisite: NEUR 0650 or equivalent, or instructor permission.","info":"Andrea Megela Simmons (Primary) / CLPS 1510 S01 / CRN: 15711","_id":"xEGxcI7E4mqyzQaz"}
{"title":"Introduction to Music Theory","teaser":"An introduction to musical terms, elements, and techniques, including notation, intervals, scales and modes, triads and seventh chords, modulation, melody writing and harmonization, analysis, and composition. Ear-training and sight-singing are included. For students with some musical training. Enrollment limited to 40.","info":"Louis Frederick Jodry (Primary) / MUSC 0400 S01 / CRN: 15904","_id":"xEXA2OcAMEGfVKQz"}
{"title":"Introduction to Computer Systems","teaser":"High-level computer architecture and systems programming. The course covers the organization of computer systems (in terms of storage units, caches, processors, and I/O controllers) and teaches students assembly-language programming and C-language programming. Extensive programming exercises introduce students to systems-level programming on Unix systems, as well as to multi-threaded programming with POSIX threads. Students will learn the basics of how computers work and will be introduced to the functions of operating systems. Prerequisite: CSCI 0150, 0180, or 0190.","info":"Thomas W. Doeppner Jr. (Primary) / CSCI 0330 S01 / CRN: 15980","_id":"xG7zzmVTb3fD6kyf"}
{"title":"Introduction to Engineering","teaser":"An introduction to various engineering disciplines, thought processes, and issues. Topics include computing in engineering, engineering design, optimization, and estimation. Case studies in engineering are used to illustrate engineering fields and scientific principles, including in-depth studies of statics and optics. Laboratories and design projects are included. Prerequisite: one of the following: APMA 0330, 0340, 0350, 0360, MATH 0100, 0170, 0180, 0190, 0200, 0350, 0520, 0540, which may be taken concurrently.\nStudents MUST register for the course lecture (M01) and one of the sections during the SAME registration session. Banner will not allow a student to register for one component without registering for the other at the same time. Further, if you drop one component of the course on Banner, both components will be dropped.","info":"Clyde L. Briant (Primary) / ENGN 0030 M01 / CRN: 16580","_id":"xP9KwNUM1Sqm1qeA"}
{"title":"Theories in First and Second Language Acquisition","teaser":"Theory and current research relating to first and second language acquisition and learning are examined from a pedagogical perspective. Focuses on both learning and teaching a second language. Conducted in English.","info":"Sara W. Smith (Primary) / POBS 2020D S01 / CRN: 15563","_id":"xRtDx0XF5D8GRAmy"}
{"title":"Art and Politics","teaser":"This seminar will examine how power and culture give meaning to objects as well as how objects become subjects of history. This seminar will work closely with the RISD Museum and students in the seminar will select objects from the museum's collection to historically and creatively examine different ways of seeing and narrating, combining theory with hands-on exploration of how objects make their way to museum collections and acquire the status of \"art.\"","info":"Vazira F-Y Zamindar (Primary) / HIST 1976S S01 / CRN: 15098","_id":"xSHM2spxsJRweiAC"}
{"title":"Techniques in Experimental Physics","teaser":"No description available.","info":"PHYS 2010 S01 / CRN: 15250","_id":"xVtQftsybHZX1TpS"}
{"title":"Ordinary Differential Equations","teaser":"Ordinary differential equations, including existence and uniqueness theorems and the theory of linear systems. Topics may also include stability theory, the study of singularities, and boundary value problems.","info":"MATH 1110 S01 / CRN: 15377","_id":"xiAUhGjXFgm4OfFJ"}
{"title":"Debates on the Holocaust","teaser":"Few topics in Modern European History have so heavily engaged historians while producing so little consensus as the Holocaust. Several debates have emerged in scholarship around several major issues such as motivation, collaboration, ideology, as well as larger questions around genocide itself. In this course, we will examine each debate and the links to specific methods within history such as periodization, causality and disciplinary boundaries. This course presents a unique entry to gain exposure to foundational historical categories and methods. Students will gain a knowledge of concepts critical to historical debate and foundation in a variety of approaches to history.","info":"Adam J Sacks (Primary) / HIST 1979W S01 / CRN: 16856","_id":"xoBX8WPyR5xwIocq"}
{"title":"Senior Honors Thesis Preparation","teaser":"Concentrators who have given evidence of superior work in political science may be admitted to honors seminar on the basis of an application submitted in the spring of their junior year. Application and guidelines may be obtained on the Department of Political Science website.  Prerequisite: Fulfillment of Methods requirement.  Enrollment limited to 20 senior Political Science concentrators. Instructor permission required. WRIT","info":"POLS 1910 S01 / CRN: 15045","_id":"xu54D0bvegpB9G4X"}
{"title":"Subjects and Objects: Evidence as Methaphor and Constraint","teaser":"This seminar will investigate the nature of reality and unreality as they are conceived through the narratives and instantiations of subjects and objects, beginning in philosophy and in relation to various modes of performance. We will consider how metaphor inverts evidentiary logic and troubles the concepts of reason and facticity that so often serve as constraints. We will also investigate how the operations of such reasoning and counter-reasoning, logic and counter-logic locate themselves in the individual (in mind, body, embodied memory) and how we negotiate thought from the concept of the a priori.","info":"Spencer Golub (Primary) / TAPS 2200P S01 / CRN: 16307","_id":"xvZcVtlJ7BcSJJaj"}
{"title":"Public Art: History, Theory, and Practice","teaser":"The course offers an opportunity for RISD and Brown students to work together to understand the growing interdisciplinary field of public art. We will explore the potential of working in the public realm as artists and/or arts administrators. Topics include: pivotal events and artworks that formed the history of public art from the early 20th century to the present; approaches to site-specificity; ideas of community and audience; current debates around defining the public and public space; temporary vs. permanent work; controversies in public art; memorials, monuments, and anti-monuments; case studies; public art administration models, among others. It is both a seminar and a studio; students work individually and together on research, presentations, proposals and public projects. Contact the instructor Janet Zweig (janetzweig@earthlink.net). Enrollment limited to 12 seniors and graduate students. Instructor permission required.","info":"AMST 2653 S01 / CRN: 16252","_id":"y27qC0yg84nOnrWa"}
{"title":"Politics of Transportation Policy","teaser":"Three transportation modes are emphasized: planes, trains, and automobiles. Three sets of actors are studied: Congress, pressure groups, and governmental agencies.  The focus is on historical patterns of usage and current policy questions including airlines vs. airports, problematic drivers, and cars vs. transit.  Background in the rudiments of American politics is desired.","info":"Roger Cobb (Primary) / POLS 1080 S01 / CRN: 15021","_id":"y2ukGnT4FGqPWVmv"}
{"title":"Southern African History","teaser":"This course examines major themes of  history of southern Africa from the earliest times until 1994, with heavy emphasis on historiographical debates. Our discussions of the South African past will always be informed by a consideration of the approach of the scholars who have interpreted and presented it as history. Our major questions concern the origins of historical change and the creation of racial groups. We will probe the significance of race in South African history but also the limitations of its explanatory power.  Course will meet twice a week for lecture and discussion groups will meet once a week.","info":"Nancy J. Jacobs (Primary) / HIST 1030 S01 / CRN: 14944","_id":"y6g1QTZrOaU4XGd7"}
{"title":"Freedom Without Freedoms","teaser":"This seminar, through readings both literary and theoretical, asks why Jean-Luc Nancy would insist that “freedoms”—that is, legal protections and entitlements—cannot grasp the stakes of freedom. What forms can freedom take when it is thought apart from legal provisions? We will consider a wide range of thought on the experience of freedom, from classical practices of the self to liberation from the self, from Christian liberty to liberty realized through love, from self-control to sublime subjection to an “event.” We will also think through the contribution that imaginative literature makes to the question of freedom. Enrollment limited to 15.","info":"James Kuzner (Primary) / ENGL 2901A S01 / CRN: 15599","_id":"yAf5bjFaHFtnBzTh"}
{"title":"Abstract Algebra","teaser":"An introduction to the principles and concepts of modern abstract algebra. Topics include groups, rings, and fields; applications to number theory, the theory of equations, and geometry. MATH 1530 is required of all students concentrating in mathematics.","info":"Stephen Lichtenbaum (Primary) / MATH 1530 S01 / CRN: 15382","_id":"yF8ba5QFAEhq8Rs5"}
{"title":"Advanced Molecular and Cellular Neurobiology I","teaser":"Focuses on molecular and cellular approaches used to study the CNS at the level of single molecules, individual cells and single synapses by concentrating on fundamental mechanisms of CNS information transfer, integration, and storage. Topics include biophysics of single channels, neural transmission and synaptic function.  Enrollment limited to graduate students.","info":"Anne C. Hart (Primary) / NEUR 2030 S01 / CRN: 15852","_id":"yI22ZgsF85z0Je9W"}
{"title":"Ishiguro, Amongst Others (ENGL 0710L)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ENGL 0710L (CRN 15475).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 0711B S01 / CRN: 16340","_id":"yINU3KV9hJMW419D"}
{"title":"Comparative Approaches to the Literatures of Brazil and the United States (POBS 0850)","teaser":"Interested students must register for POBS 0850 (CRN 16267).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 0711D S01 / CRN: 16537","_id":"yKQ4QRu7Z6ouJyeF"}
{"title":"Physics of Matter","teaser":"An introduction to the principles of quantum mechanics and their use in the description of the electronic, thermal, and optical properties of materials. Primarily intended as an advanced science course in the engineering curriculum. Open to others by permission. Prerequisites: ENGN 0040, APMA 0340 or equivalents.","info":"PHYS 0790 S01 / CRN: 15243","_id":"yNNsxBNpCzfu1qXW"}
{"title":"Approaches to the Mind: Introduction to Cognitive Science","teaser":"Cognitive science is the study of the mind from an interdisciplinary perspective. It focuses on such questions as how do we process information to recognize objects and faces, to know that a cup is not a bowl, to remember and learn, and to speak and understand? How can studying the brain inform us about the mind? This course will examine the above questions and discuss major themes in cognitive science including nature-nurture, categories and representations, and the nature of computations. WRIT","info":"Sheila E. Blumstein (Primary) / CLPS 0020 S01 / CRN: 15725","_id":"yQuAa7Z3YdVxz5zv"}
{"title":"Topics in Language Acquisition (CLPS 1385)","teaser":"Interested students must register for CLPS 1385 (CRN 15766).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"LING 1385 S01 / CRN: 16824","_id":"yThIpJ2AVtPyTEfA"}
{"title":"Postcoloniality and Globalism (ENGL 2900Z)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ENGL 2900Z (CRN 15456).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 2821L S01 / CRN: 16343","_id":"yiB2UuNRm0H23fTe"}
{"title":"Practicum in Public Humanities","teaser":"Practicums in public humanities provide practical, hands-on training that is essential for careers in museums, historic preservation, and cultural agencies. Students will work with faculty to find appropriate placements and negotiate a semester's or summer work, in general a specific project. Available only to students in the Public Humanities M.A. program.","info":"Susan Smulyan (Primary) / AMST 2670 S01 / CRN: 16889","_id":"yny7h66lRRdvgVs3"}
{"title":"Principles of Population","teaser":"An advanced introduction to theoretical and substantive issues in the social scientific study of population. Major areas within sociology are integrated with the study of population, including the comparative–historical analysis of development, family processes, social stratification, ethnicity, ecological studies, and social policy.  Primarily for first year Graduate students.","info":"Mary Elizabeth Fussell (Primary) / SOC 2080 S01 / CRN: 15447","_id":"yoLf6aOFgIcNtGO2"}
{"title":"Christmas in America","teaser":"This course explores how Christmas became a religious, consumer, and social extravaganza. Every year, many Americans devote several months to preparing for and recovering from Christmas. Most participate as Christians, but others participate despite other religious identities. Yet Christmas has not always loomed so large. Through encounters with such phenomena as sacred stories, consumer practices, and legal controversies, this course invites students to ask how and why Christmas became an important event. By the end of the course, students not only will recognize how religion and culture take shape together but also will appreciate how popular practices develop. FYS LILE WRIT","info":"Daniel Vaca (Primary) / RELS 0090K S01 / CRN: 15992","_id":"ypYUAmfPYrgAp8qa"}
{"title":"Information, Discourse, Networks","teaser":"What is information and how can we understand its relation to narrative, networks and power?  this course offers a historical and theoretical examination of the rise of information and networks.  Key issues include: the relationships between cybernetics and humanistic theories, information and language, the rise of big data, questions of gender, sexuality and race.\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Wendy Hui Kyong Chun (Primary) / MCM 1502H S01 / CRN: 15008","_id":"yvCJF4IuHAuPZGs8"}
{"title":"Struggle and Domination in the Prehistoric Mediterranean: Sex Power God(s)","teaser":"Humans seek to survive, adapt, develop, and thrive.  Yet our species is also prone to power struggles, violence, and domination.  This strife can be seen in the findings of the latest archaeological and ethnographic research – which casts doubt on the peaceful, egalitarian societies sometimes imagined in the prehistoric past.  This course will examine power and inequality in the prehistoric Mediterranean, considering such vectors as religion, human-nonhuman relationships, monument building, technological innovations, death, and sexuality. WRIT","info":"Clive Vella (Primary) / ARCH 1525 S01 / CRN: 16784","_id":"yvOC7nCshYt6NErc"}
{"title":"Stochastic Models of Neuronal Networks","teaser":"Senior seminar on stochastic models of neuronal network dynamics. Topics will include: dynamics of sparsely connected networks; various regimes and phase transitions; role of network structure and network motifs; spike-timing-dependent plasticity. Some of the tools: mean-field approach; eigenvalue spectra of random matrices; numerical simulation. Required background: calculus, basic probability. Background in neuroscience is helpful but not required. We will start with a few lectures to set up the stage.","info":"Lucien J. E. Bienenstock (Primary) / APMA 1930N S01 / CRN: 16595","_id":"yxONzqosn5EBwAlX"}
{"title":"Advanced Screenwriting","teaser":"The writing of short screenplays or a longer work in progress in regular installments, along with a body of exercises, workshop conversations and conferences. See general course description above for course entry procedures for all advanced workshops. Instructor permission required. S/NC. WRIT\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"Hisham Bizri (Primary) / LITR 1010E S01 / CRN: 15559","_id":"z2xpRcLzCo8gt9yp"}
{"title":"Causal Inference and Missing Data","teaser":"Systematic overview of modern statistical methods for handling incomplete data and for drawing causal inferences from \"broken experiments\" and observational studies. Topics include modeling approaches, propensity score adjustment, instrumental variables, inverse weighting methods and sensitivity analysis. Case studies used throughout to illustrate ideas and concepts. Prerequisite: MATH 1610 or PHP 2511. Open to advanced undergraduates with permission from the instructor.","info":"Hana Lee (Primary) / PHP 2610 S01 / CRN: 16780","_id":"z3WNdthMPpWpElHj"}
{"title":"Social Security Reform","teaser":"The course looks at the economics of social security reform with particular focus on possible policy responses to the increasing fraction of the population that is elderly in OECD countries. Among the topics that will be considered are pay as you go funding, defined benefits versus defined concentrations, privatization, labor market effects of pensions, retirement decisions, labor supply by couples, and macroeconomic effects. Prerequisite: ECON 1110 or 1130. Enrollment limited to 30.  Not open to first-year students. DPLL","info":"ECON 1485 S01 / CRN: 16706","_id":"zAmadVXHpdDOi1gz"}
{"title":"History Honors Workshop for Thesis Writers, Part I","teaser":"HIST 1992 and HIST 1993 students meet together as the History Honors Workshop, offered in two separate sections per week. All students admitted to the History Honors Program must enroll in HIST 1993 for two semesters of thesis research and writing. They may enroll in the course during semesters 6 and 7, or 7 and 8. Course work entails researching, organizing,  writing a history honors thesis. Presentation of work and critique of peers' work required. Limited to seniors and juniors who have been admitted to History Honors Program. HIST 1993 is a mandatory S/NC course. See History Concentration Honors Requirements.","info":"Ethan Pollock (Primary) / HIST 1993 S01 / CRN: 15057","_id":"zB3XTXp8YBY97mCz"}
{"title":"Reason, Revolution and Reaction in Europe","teaser":"This course will explore cultural, economic, and political forces taking place in the globalizing Europe of the 18th and 19th centuries. WRIT FYS","info":"Joan L. Richards (Primary) / HIST 0522N S01 / CRN: 15409","_id":"zG80BWwTTnZParm2"}
{"title":"Advanced Creative Nonfiction: Writing with Food","teaser":"This course examines writing about food and how writing affects food and food culture. We shall explore the relationship of food to the pen through reading classic texts, writing in and out of class, guest lectures, and touring culinary archives. The goal is to polish personal voice in menus, recipes, memoir, history, reportage, and the lyric essay. Prerequisite: ENGL 0930 or any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. Class list will be reduced to 17 after writing samples are reviewed during the first week of classes. Preference will be given to English concentrators. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC.","info":"Carol DeBoer-Langworthy (Primary) / ENGL 1180C S01 / CRN: 15598","_id":"zKAf0LJSdLoZGg6L"}
{"title":"Drug and Gene Delivery","teaser":"Topics in drug delivery systems including history of the field, advantages of controlled release technology, stabilization and release of proteins, fabrication methods, regulatory considerations, economic aspects, patents and intellectual property rights, and more. Prepares students for research in industry and academia, and offers information for consultants in the field. Expected: BIOL 1090, 1120; CHEM 0350, 0360.","info":"Edith Mathiowitz (Primary) / BIOL 2110 S01 / CRN: 14789","_id":"zN6ONS6fyyNevXBm"}
{"title":"Japan's Pacific War: 1937-1945","teaser":"Uses film, oral histories, historical fiction, and more traditional forms of historical interpretation to explore the events, ideas, and legacies of Japan's Pacific War. The armed conflict began in 1937 with the Japanese invasion of China and ended in 1945 with the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Some attention is paid to military developments, but the principle concerns fall into the areas of mutual images, mobilization, and memory.  WRIT","info":"Kerry Smith (Primary) / HIST 1155 S01 / CRN: 15418","_id":"zPjxkuG7hvRSmuFE"}
{"title":"Queer Relations: Aesthetics and Sexuality (ENGL 1900R)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ENGL 1900R (CRN 15628).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"COLT 1812U S01 / CRN: 16337","_id":"zQ9OwtNXym05vpJE"}
{"title":"Afro-Brazilians and the Brazilian Polity (AFRI 1210)","teaser":"Interested students must register for AFRI 1210 (CRN 16229).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"POBS 1210 S01 / CRN: 16353","_id":"zQgjGA9K6wwwO3Nr"}
{"title":"Complex Analysis","teaser":"Examines one of the cornerstones of mathematics.  Complex differentiability, Cauchy-Riemann differential equations, contour integration, residue calculus, harmonic functions, geometric properties of complex mappings.  Prerequisite: MATH 0180, 0200, or 0350. This course does not require MATH 0520 or 0540.","info":"Brian J. Cole (Primary) / MATH 1260 S01 / CRN: 15379","_id":"zYsLTC0c4kJBXHvl"}
{"title":"Computational Theory of Molecular Evolution and Population Genetics","teaser":"Population genetics is the study of how biological processes such as mutation, natural selection, population size, and subdivision drive evolution over the timescale of generations. The past 20 years have seen a flowering in our understanding of this process from both theoretical and experimental perspectives. This course will present a rigorous introduction to modern population genetics, with particular emphasis on the complementary interplay between theory and experiment. Students will also gain extensive experience with the primary literature of the field. Prerequisites: MATH 0100 and one of BIOL 0470 or 0480, or permission. LILE","info":"Daniel M. Weinreich (Primary) / BIOL 1430 S01 / CRN: 14749","_id":"zZ9H8y0ReKMhs4AS"}
{"title":"Formal Semantics","teaser":"Model-theoretic approaches to the study of the semantics of natural languages. Develops the tools necessary for an understanding of \"classical\" formal semantics (the lambda calculus, intensional logic; Montague's treatment of quantification, etc.); then applies these tools to the analysis of natural language semantics; and finally turns to recent developments in formal semantic theory. Prerequisite: some familiarity with syntax or semantics or basic set theory and logic.","info":"Pauline I. Jacobson (Primary) / CLPS 1342 S01 / CRN: 15762","_id":"zf3YnETfzeqgegGY"}
{"title":"Advanced Modern Dance","teaser":"Designed for dancers who have attained an advanced level in any dance technique. The purpose is to help such dancers come to understand both intellectually and kinesthetically the diversity of one of the few indigenous American art forms: modern dance.  Enrollment limited to 40. S/NC.","info":"TAPS 1310 S01 / CRN: 16115","_id":"ziKrOaO61q1aMvtI"}
{"title":"Conditionals","teaser":"In this course, we will look at different theories of what \"if\" means. Is it a truth-functional connective, like the material conditional used in logic? Do sentences of the form \"If P, then Q\" even have truth conditions? Some logic will be very helpful; some familiarity with philosophy of language also helpful.","info":"James Dreier (Primary) / PHIL 1100D S01 / CRN: 15084","_id":"zpkbFE074RFXe32E"}
{"title":"Word, Media, Power in Modern Italy (ITAL 1590)","teaser":"Interested students must register for ITAL 1590 (CRN 15260).\nSee full details for special class announcement.","info":"MCM 1202Q S01 / CRN: 16323","_id":"zqs8DdPx8niCwbXA"}
